Some people learn that their hemoglobin is low, which indicates anemia, when they go to donate blood.
If you're told that you can't donate blood because of low hemoglobin, make an appointment with your doctor.
A high level of the wrong kind of cholesterol, known as low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (the "bad" cholesterol), increases your risk of angina and heart attacks.
A mutation in a tumor suppressor gene allows cancer cells to continue growing and accumulating.
However, the deadly effects of the disease are the result of a potent toxin called CTX that the bacterium produce in the small intestine.
Edema and ascites also may result from the inability of the liver to make enough of certain blood proteins, such as albumin.
If you have low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or "good," cholesterol, your risk of type 2 diabetes is higher.
Presence of ketones in the urine (ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin).
your immune system — which normally fights harmful bacteria or viruses — attacks and destroys your insulin-producing cells in the pancreas.
This leaves you with little or no insulin.
your cells become resistant to the action of insulin, and your pancreas is unable to make enough insulin to overcome this resistance.
These hormones make your cells more resistant to insulin.
The more fatty tissue you have, the more resistant your cells become to insulin.
Sometimes babies of mothers with gestational diabetes develop low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) shortly after birth because their own insulin production is high.
Taking medications that contain estrogen, such as oral contraceptives or hormone therapy drugs.
Your doctor can use a purified protein derivative (PPD) skin test to determine if you’re infected with the TB bacteria.
For this test, your doctor will inject 0.1 milliliter of PPD (a small amount of protein) under the top layer of your skin.
Furthermore, the researchers found the bacterium creates a hyperinfected state where genes that control biosynthesis of amino acids, iron uptake systems, and formation of periplasmic nitrate reductase complexes were induced just before defecation.
Once inside the cell, the disulfide bond is reduced, and the A1 subunit is freed to bind with a human partner protein called ADP-ribosylation factor 6 (Arf6).
Binding exposes its active site, allowing it to permanently ribosylate the Gs alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein.
Ebola virus infections can be diagnosed definitively in a laboratory through several types of tests, including: Antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) testing.
EBOV proteins blunt the human immune system's response to viral infections by interfering with the cells' ability to produce and respond to interferon proteins such as interferon-alpha, interferon-beta, and interferon gamma.
The genetic region contains a gene, NRAMP1, that is known to be involved in the susceptibility to leprosy, which is caused by a bacterium related to TB.
Aside from these ambient allergens, allergic reactions can result from foods, insect stings, and reactions to medications like aspirin and antibiotics such as penicillin.
The underlying mechanism involves immunoglobulin E antibodies (IgE), part of the body's immune system, binding to an allergen and then to a receptor on mast cells or basophils where it triggers the release of inflammatory chemicals such as histamine.
Changes in the F8 gene are responsible for hemophilia A, while mutations in the F9 gene cause hemophilia B.
The F8 gene provides instructions for making a protein called coagulation factor VIII.
A related protein, coagulation factor IX, is produced from the F9 gene.
Mutations in the F8 or F9 gene lead to the production of an abnormal version of coagulation factor VIII or coagulation factor IX, or reduce the amount of one of these proteins.
Acquired hemophilia results when the body makes specialized proteins called autoantibodies that attack and disable coagulation factor VIII.
Th1/Th2 type cytokines in hepatitis B patients treated with interferon-alpha.
Co-expression of ErbB-1  +, - 3+, or expression of three or more epidermal growth factor receptor family members had a significant effect on lung cancer recurrence.
The present study shows that in patients with a non-well-differentiated tumor , overexpression of ErbB-3 is a useful marker for predicting tumor recurrence.
present study also confirmed that ErbB-1 expression increased in proportion to the loss of tumor differentiation.
The Cockayne syndrome group A gene encodes a WD repeat protein that interacts with CSB protein and a subunit of RNA polymerase II TFIIH.
When due to autoimmune problems, low red blood cells due to not enough vitamin B12 may occur, a condition known as pernicious anemia.
Insulin-like growth factors and their binding proteins play a key role in cancer cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, suggesting possible involvement in carcinogenesis.
example, the daughters of women who have breast cancer have significantly higher levels of estrogen and progesterone than the daughters of women without breast cancer.
Similarly, men of African ancestry have significantly higher levels of testosterone than men of European ancestry and have a correspondingly higher level of prostate cancer.
Men of Asian ancestry, with the lowest levels of testosterone-activating androstanediol glucuronide, have the lowest levels of prostate cancer.
Oncogenes are genes that promote cell growth and reproduction.
Tumor suppressor genes are genes that inhibit cell division and survival.
A well-known example of this is the Philadelphia chromosome, or translocation of chromosomes 9 and 22, which occurs in chronic myelogenous leukemia and results in production of the BCR-abl fusion protein, an oncogenic tyrosine kinase.
Examples of such modifications are changes in DNA methylation (hypermethylation and hypomethylation), histone modification[78] and changes in chromosomal architecture (caused by inappropriate expression of proteins such as HMGA2 or HMGA1).
In addition, frequent epigenetic alterations of the DNA sequences code for small RNAs called microRNAs (or miRNAs).
Effect of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, candesartan, on insulin resistance and pressor mechanisms in essential hypertension.
These findings suggest that inhibition of angiotensin II action by candesartan can improve insulin sensitivity and inhibit the sodium-retaining action associated with hyperinsulinaemia in essential hypertension.
The insurmountable inhibition of candesartan in vascular contraction is the result of its tight binding and slow dissociation from angiotensin II AT1 receptors.
It is now recognized that growth hormone (GH) deficiency in adults represents a distinct clinical syndrome that encompasses reduced psychological well-being as well as specific metabolic abnormalities.
Role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase in angiotensin II regulation of norepinephrine neuromodulation in brain neurons of the spontaneously hypertensive rat.
We conclude that the negative feedback mechanism in regulating renin and prorenin secretion was inhibited by ACE inhibitor ramipril but beta 1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist metoprolol did not significantly change total renin concentration in serum.
These findings suggest that insulin reduces blood pressure in the ZDF rat by stimulating NOS activation and NO production.
We also demonstrated that the function of Gi protein in relation to alpha2-adrenoceptor was already lower in SHR before the onset of hypertension.
These results imply that hyperinsulinemia in rats could lead to hypertension via the elevation of plasma ET-1 levels together with an unaltered vascular binding of ET-1, which was probably unrelated to the insulin resistance.
These findings suggest that phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP response element binding protein is crucial to Fos expression in the nucleus tractus solitarii elicited by sustained hypertension.
Our study showed that ANP and BNP expression in left heart chambers increased with a small increase in age, with hypertension of intermediate duration, and with modest left ventricular hypertrophy.
Cardiac chamber-specific alterations of ANP and BNP expression with advancing age and with systemic hypertension.
Recently, we described that the TRH precursor gene overexpression induces hypertension in the normal rat.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expression is markedly reduced in dorsal root ganglia neurons in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR).
These results suggest that antioxidants attenuate systolic blood pressure, suppress renal NF-kappaB-binding activity, and partly alleviate renal monocyte/macrophage infiltration in DOCA-salt hypertension.
Mineralocorticoid receptor blockade downregulates these effectors and reduces angiotensin II-induced cardiac damage.
Alterations in the regulation of androgen-sensitive Cyp 4a monooxygenases cause hypertension.
We conclude that the androgen-mediated regulation of Cyp 4a arachidonate monooxygenases is an important component of the renal mechanisms that control systemic blood pressures.
The gene expression of ACE, AT1 receptor, and type I collagen mRNA were significantly increased in DOCA-V compared with ShC, and significantly suppressed in DOCA-QUI compared with DOCA-V.
In hypertension, vWF is readily released from endothelial cells by beta-adrenergic stimulation, which might contribute to increased cardiovascular risk.
In conclusion, the longer TA repeat unit in the promoter of Npr1 of SHR, in tandem with a putative cGMP responsive element, regulates the transcription of the Npr1 gene with consequences on diastolic blood pressure.
Furthermore, the vascular endothelium in diabetic vessels is a net source of superoxide rather than NO production, due to dysfunction of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS).
Renal function and angiotensin AT1 receptor expression in young rats following intrauterine exposure to a maternal low-protein diet.
We observed a significant increase in ACR in the group with complications (GDM and GH) during gestation regardless of intensive antihypertensive treatment.
The intensity of the infiltration of lymphocytes, macrophages, and angiotensin II-positive cells significantly correlated with systolic blood pressure.
In cultured VSMC, AR inhibitors prevented signaling events upstream of NF-kappaB activation, i.e. IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation and IkappaB-alpha degradation.
Angiotensin II receptor binding in the locus ceruleus of spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats: a quantitative autoradiographic study with references to hypertension and cardiac/testicular hypertrophy.
Results indicated that cardiac and testicular hypertrophies were related to higher AII receptor binding in the LC of SHR rats, when compared with WKY rats.
In addition, the AT1 receptor undergoes rapid phosphorylation, desensitization, and internalization upon AngII stimulation.
Phosphorylated isoforms of Hsp27 and Hsp70 may play an important role in protecting the heart against ANG II-induced inflammation.
Modulation of Cx40 expression in a model of renin-dependent hypertension suggests that this connexin may be implicated in the function of renin-secreting cells.
Simvastatin reduces interleukin-1beta secretion by peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with essential hypertension.
The expression and activity of heme oxygenase-1, sGC and cGMP in vascular SMCs are associated with different stages of development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs).
Northern blot analysis revealed that ANP gene expression is higher in the right and left atria of hypertensive rats when compared to normotensive rats.
We show that, in addition to renin, angiotensinogen (AGT) is produced by some cysts and dilated tubules.
The time course of c-Src phosphorylation by aldosterone was shifted to the left in vascular myocytes from hypertensive animals.
All these results suggest that arsenite increases agonist-induced vasoconstriction mediated by MLC phosphorylation in smooth muscles and that calcium sensitization is one of the key mechanisms for the hypercontraction induced by arsenite in blood vessels.
Left ventricular dysfunction after acute intracranial hypertension is associated with increased hydroxyl free radical production, cardiac ryanodine hyperphosphorylation, and troponin I degradation.
Internalization and dephosphorylation of connexin43 in hypertrophied right ventricles of rats with pulmonary hypertension.
At 24 hours, high pressure was associated with increased mRNA expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interleukin-6, keratinocyte-derived chemokine, and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (6.9+/-2.1, 4.4+/-0.1, 9.8+/-2.8, and 2.4+/-0.1-fold respectively; P&lt;0.05), as assessed by quantitative RT-PCR and corroborated by immunohistochemistry, which also revealed an increase in intracellular adhesion molecule-1 expression.
In downstream signaling pathways, ATRAP suppressed Ang II-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase, activation of c-fos gene transcription, and enhancement of amino acid or bromodeoxyuridine incorporation in cardiovascular cells.
In cardiovascular cells, angiotensin II (Ang II) stimulation made ATRAP co-localized with AT1 receptor in cytoplasm; ATRAP overexpression decreased cell surface AT1 receptor.
Blockade of MMPs with a broad-acting inhibitor (doxycycline, 5.4 mg/kg per day) reduces protease activity in plasma and microvessels; blocks the proteolytic cleavage of the insulin receptor, the reduced glucose transport; normalizes blood glucose levels and glycohemoglobin levels; and reduces blood pressure and enhanced microvascular oxidative stress of SHRs.
The mRNA expression of MT2 in the AHA of SIHR was higher than that in normotensive control rats, whereas there was no significant difference in MT1 mRNA expressin between the two groups.
TGF-beta1 expression and Smad2 phosphorylation also increased.
The importance of measuring intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) has increased since the negative effects of sustained increased IAP, also known as intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH), have become known.
Reactive oxygen species generation, nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase expression, and phosphorylation of p38 and p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinases were also much less pronounced in the LOX-1 knockout mice given angiotensin II.
Nedd4-2 binds the ENaC-PY motif via it WW domains, ubiquitylates the channel and targets it for endocytosis, a process impaired in Liddle syndrome due to poor binding of the channel to Nedd4-2.
Nedd4-2 binds the ENaC-PY motif via it WW domains, ubiquitylates the channel and targets it for endocytosis, a process impaired in Liddle syndrome due to poor binding of the channel to Nedd4-2.
Targeting the degradation of angiotensin II with recombinant angiotensin-converting enzyme 2: prevention of angiotensin II-dependent hypertension.
We conclude that, during Ang II infusion, rACE2 effectively degrades Ang II and, in the process, normalizes blood pressure.
Signaling via iron-catalyzed protein oxidation mediates hypoxic pulmonary hypertension-induced annexin A1 degradation, Gata4 gene transcription, and right ventricular hypertrophy.
These results establish a right heart-specific signaling mechanism in response to pressure overload, which involves metal-catalyzed carbonylation and degradation of annexin A1 that liberates CBF/NF-Y to activate Gata4 gene transcription.
These results establish a right heart-specific signaling mechanism in response to pressure overload, which involves metal-catalyzed carbonylation and degradation of annexin A1 that liberates CBF/NF-Y to activate Gata4 gene transcription.
These results establish a right heart-specific signaling mechanism in response to pressure overload, which involves metal-catalyzed carbonylation and degradation of annexin A1 that liberates CBF/NF-Y to activate Gata4 gene transcription.
Because dominant KLHL3 and CUL3 mutations both phenocopy recessive loss-of-function KLHL3 mutations, they may abrogate ubiquitination of KLHL3 substrates.
Ace1 promoter was mostly unmethylated in all of the tissues from both strains.
Accordingly, vascular p38MAPK is a mechano-sensitive MAPK, differentially regulated by acute and chronic stretch in WKY and SHR.
Experimental in vitro studies showed that renalase degrades catecholamines and thus may have a significant hemodynamic effect in vivo, for example may decrease cardiac contractility, heart rate, and blood pressure.
The peach ethyl acetate extract also attenuated the Ang II-induced phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor and myosin phosphatase target subunit 1, both of which are associated with atherosclerosis and hypertension.
Immunohistochemistry also revealed connexin-43 degradation in the RVs with severe PH.
The results from the present study suggest that the dephosphorylation of Src tyrosine kinase 529, the phosphorylation of tyrosine 418 and their subnuclear redistribution are involved in endonuclear signal transduction in cardiac myocytes, which regulates the development and progression of LV eccentric hypertrophy induced by hypertension.
A breakdown analysis by gender showed that lower CpG1 methylation was associated with an increased risk of EH in females (adjusted P?=?0.042).
A significant interaction between CpG1 methylation and age was found in females (CpG1*age: P?=?0.029).
CpG1 methylation was inversely correlated with age in females (r?=?-0.407, P?=?0.019) but not in males.
Significantly higher ADD1 DNA methylation levels were observed in the females than in the males (CpG1: P?=?0.016; CpG2-5: P?=?0.021).
Interactions between the FTO and GNB3 genes contribute to varied clinical phenotypes in hypertension.
The rats with renal hypertension did not show such an increased sensitivity of the adipose tissue to ACTH.
The dilution effectively inhibits in vitro production of angiotensin I, conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, and degradation of the peptides.
Specific antagonists of angiotensin II (AII) such as saralasin might theoretically be of great value in the recognition of angiotensinogenic hypertension.
Sodium supply was proved to influence significantly the pressor response to angiotensin II and not that to noradrenaline thus implying the presence of arterial receptors which bind angiotensin specifically.
We examined the association of DBH with age and with hypertension and the faamilial pattern of distribution of serum DBH activity.
Transforming growth factor-beta and platelet-derived growth factor also stimulated tenascin mRNA expression.
Hyperglycemia, in fact, leads to some metabolic abnormalities, i.e. non-enzymatic glycosylation of proteins and polyol pathway activity; moreover it can negatively affect the pattern of some hormones, especially GH and sex steroids, and normal rheological and clotting properties of blood.
Subpopulations of endothelial cells store and release a variety of substances, including acetylcholine, substance P, ATP, 5-hydroxytryptamine, vasopressin and angiotensin II, that act on receptors on endothelial cells and lead to the production of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (identified as nitric oxide) which, in turn, produces vasodilation in response to changes in flow and hypoxia.
In contrast, direct activation of PKC by phorbol ester and of MLCK by the calcium ionophore A23187 evoked the selective phosphorylation of the respective target proteins, P47 and P20, to a similar extent in platelets of SHR and WKY.
A significantly increased (p less than 0.04) rate of PIH was found for women with uterine malformation as well as a 2-fold higher frequency of preeclampsia.
Effects of bisoprolol on blood pressure, serum lipids and HDL-cholesterol in essential hypertension.
In human essential hypertension, the plasma levels of IR-ANF are not increased except in the severe form (diastolic blood pressure above 110 mmHg).
We propose that the increased secretion of the vasodilatory hormone ANP serves as counterregulation against the vasoconstrictor norepinephrine.
In stable hypertension, the RAS and hypothalamus-pituitary influenced aldosterone secretion in an equal degree.
This indicates that the increase in PRA is likely due to the reduced negative feedback of angiotensin II.
These data offer support for previously reported findings that the action of angiotensin II is calcium mediated.
To investigate the role of Angiotensin II in the release of ACTH, the response of adrenocorticotrophic hormone to hypoglycaemia was studied before and during treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, in 15 male patients with essential hypertension.
A high generation rate of angiotensin I in the affected kidney in patients with unilateral renin secretion after captopril is probably explained by activation of the local renin secretion.
Only dietary therapy was associated with a significant elevation of HDL2 level (P less than 0.05) and decrease in glycosylated haemoglobin (P less than 0.01).
Activity of alanine aminopeptidase (AAP), aryl sulphatase A (ASA) beta-glucoronidase (beta-GA) and the concentration of beta 2-microglobulin in urine was determined in 12 patients with chronic diffuse glomerulonephritis and in 16 patients with essential hypertension.
Also platelet counts, spontaneous platelet aggregation in vitro, and coagulation studies such as fibrinogen, fibrinogen degradation products and antithrombin III (AT III) were carried out: fetal outcome was judged by birthweight, placental weight and venous umbilical pH.
These results suggest that impaired natriuretic response to endogenous ANP is one of the factors responsible for the development of EHT and that enhanced secretion of ANP in response to hypertonic saline infusion is a compensatory mechanism to the impaired natriuretic action of ANP in patients with EHT.
CCB was measured before and after administration of either vehicle, AVP, ANP, or both peptides together.
A combination of increased plasma endothelin 1 and reduced tissue prostacyclin synthesis may contribute to hypertension, placental insufficiency, foetal growth retardation and renal dysfunction in pre-eclampsia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activation of NHE-1 in WKY cells by an increased [Ca2+]i was not mediated by an increase in NHE-1 phosphorylation, whether in the presence or absence of KN-62.
These findings suggest that the increased cell proliferation rate, NHE-1 activity, and phosphorylation of lymphoblasts from hypertensives may be associated with enhanced MAPK activity, suggesting upregulation of this signaling pathway in hypertension.
There was no significant increase in the level of tyrosine phosphorylation of MAPK in cells from hypertensives.
Clusterin mRNA transcripts were increased above control levels in all 1K1C treatments, but expression was not localized specifically above endothelial cells.
The localization of endothelin (ET)-1/big ET-1, ET-3/big ET-3, ET-A and ET-B receptor was immunohistochemically examined in human adrenal glands composed of 36 normal cases, nine hyperplasia, 70 adenomas and seven carcinomas of cortical cells.
Comparison of the expression of renal AT1 receptor mRNA in control kidneys with that in DOCA salt-hypertensive kidneys revealed no significant change.
Finally, unknown tyrosine kinases may mediate tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc, Raf, and phospholipase C-gamma after angiotensin II stimulation.
We have therefore examined the effects of protein kinase C (PKC) and insulin on red blood cell membrane phosphorylation and on the kinetic properties of cation heteroexchange.
For women with EH, the DD genotype was positively associated with the thickness of the interventricular septum and inversely associated with the left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, both determined by echocardiography.
Finally, tyrosine kinases, which mediate tyrosine phosphorylation of key signal mediators such as Shc, Raf, and phospholipase C-gamma following angiotensin II stimulation, remain to be defined.
On the other hand, the levels of cardiac angiotensinogen mRNA at 16 and 24 wk and those of aortic angiotensinogen mRNA at 16 wk were significantly higher in WFR than in WLR.
Here we provide evidence that the vascular response to acute hypertension also includes induction of MAP kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1), which has been shown to function in the dephosphorylation and inactivation of MAP kinases.
The association of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) gene polymorphism with essential hypertension is still controversial.
This extra gene contains fragments of 11-beta-hydroxylase and aldosterone synthase.
Nifedipine decreased the blood pressure response to both norepinephrine and angiotensin II.
We then demonstrated in the rat that fasting exerts a tissue-specific and gene-specific suppression of NPr-C gene expression in adipose tissue that appears to be accompanied by an increased biological activity of ANP.
This observation shows the relationship between the angiotensinogen genotype, the intermediate phenotype (i.e., plasma angiotensinogen elevation), and the distant phenotype (i.e., blood pressure elevation).
Angiotensin II AT1-receptor blockade inhibits monocyte activation and adherence in transgenic (mRen2)27 rats.
Although slightly attenuated, a contraction to EGF was still observed in endothelium-intact aortic strips from 28-day DOCA-salt hypertensive rats.
The effect of Nedd4 on ENaC missing only one PY motif (of beta-ENaC), as originally described in patients with Liddle's syndrome, was intermediate.
These results do not support the hypothesis that use of diuretic medication increases RCC risk; they are more consistent with an association between RCC and high blood pressure.
Our results suggest that, in contrast to Black hypertensives, in Caucasians with essential hypertension the Sma I polymorphism is very rare and the Sca I polymorphism of ANP precursor gene is associated with sodium-sensitivity of blood pressure.
In contrast, inhibition of MAP kinase completely attenuated Ang II stimulation of NET and TH mRNA levels in the WKY rat neuron, whereas it caused only a 45% decrease in the SHR neuron.
In contrast, inhibition of MAP kinase completely attenuated Ang II stimulation of NET and TH mRNA levels in the WKY rat neuron, whereas it caused only a 45% decrease in the SHR neuron.
Inhibition of PI3-kinase had no significant effect in the WKY rat neuron.
Determination of serum cystatin C in patients with essential hypertension.
This new animal model presenting long-term and tissue-specific down-regulation of angiotensinogen corroborates the functional significance of local angiotensin production in the brain for the central regulation of blood pressure and for the pathogenesis of hypertension.
Crossbreeding of TGR(ASrAOGEN) with a hypertensive transgenic rat strain exhibiting elevated angiotensin II levels in tissues results in a marked attenuation of the hypertensive phenotype.
Moreover, cardiac beta2-receptors mediate not only chronotropic and inotropic responses at the postsynaptic level, but also noradrenalin release at the presynaptic level.
ET-1 binding to the aortic membranes, supposedly downregulated by the increased plasma ET-1 and hypertension, was similar to that found in the controls on day 13.
The more beta1-selective bisoprolol did not affect HDL-C and TGs.
Even high doses of angiotensin II are unable to overcome the AT1 specific receptor blockade.
The degree of MR visualization of the cerebral arteries, including the IC, M 1, and distal MCA, was evaluated on a 4-degree scale.
The aim of this study was to analyze the influence of the apolipoprotein E (apoE) gene polymorphism on insulin resistance and plasma lipid composition of essential hypertensive patients.
We are studying the genes and environmental factors that affect red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransport (SLC) activity and intracellular sodium (ICNa) concentration in 634 baboons that comprise 11 pedigrees of 2 and 3 generations each.
To detect and locate possible quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that affect SLC activity and ICNa concentration, we performed a genome screen by using a maximum likelihood-based variance-components linkage analysis program (SOLAR).
These results indicate differential roles of ERK1/2 and p38 MAP kinase in AT(1)-stimulated VSMC growth and collagen production, which may contribute to vascular remodeling in hypertension.
Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAP kinase were assessed by Western blots with phosphospecific antibodies.
Furthermore, hyperpolarization to cholera toxin, a direct activator of Gs protein, was also impaired in SHR.
The goals of the present study were to determine in SHR and WKY PGSMCs the following: (1) whether Ang II induces PLD activity; (2) whether the effect of Ang II on PLD activity is greater in SHR; (3) which PLD isoform is stimulated by Ang II; (4) what signaling pathway mediates Ang II-induced PLD stimulation; and (5) whether the signaling pathways mediating Ang II-induced PLD activity are different in SHR and WKY.
Therefore, we conclude that in PGSMCs, the effect of Ang II on PLD activity is (1) greater in SHR; (2) mediated by AT(1) receptors signaling to PLD2; (3) transduced primarily by Rho proteins; and (4) inhibited in SHR by brefeldin A.
Differences in prorenin glycosylation and/or phosphorylation as well as the concentration of soluble M6P/IGFII receptors and growth factors affecting cell-surface M6P/IGFII receptor density determine the amount of prorenin entering the heart and thus cardiac angiotensin II production.
In conclusion, myocytes are capable of binding, internalizing, and activating native human prorenin of renal and ovarian origin through M6P/IGFII receptors.
Cardiomyocytes bind and activate native human prorenin : role of soluble mannose 6-phosphate receptors.
While these symptoms usually improve in about a week , you may have a nagging cough that lingers for several weeks.
These results suggest that antioxidants attenuate systolic blood pressure, suppress renal NF-kappaB-binding activity, and partly alleviate renal monocyte/macrophage infiltration in DOCA-salt hypertension.
We tested the hypothesis that prolonged antioxidant administration inhibits superoxide accumulation, lowers blood pressure, and reduces NF-kappaB activation in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats.
The present study investigated the effects of the aldosterone receptor antagonists spironolactone and eplerenone on endothelial function in liquorice-induced hypertension.
In renovascular SMC, added PTHrP is antimitogenic, whereas endogenously produced PTHrP is mitogenic.
For those with pernicious anemia , vitamin B12 supplements are recommended either by mouth or by injection .
In previous studies, added parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) inhibits whereas transfected PTHrP stimulates the proliferation of A10 aortic smooth muscle cells by nuclear translocation of the peptide.
In previous studies, added parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) inhibits whereas transfected PTHrP stimulates the proliferation of A10 aortic smooth muscle cells by nuclear translocation of the peptide.
PTHrP transcript was increased in SHR-derived cells whereas PTH1 receptor (PTH1R) transcripts were similar in both cell lines.
As no reliable means of reversing impaired blood pressure variation has been established so far, we aimed at assessing the effect of a long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor trandolapril on the disturbed circadian blood pressure rhythm in diabetics without hypertension or nephropathy.
Relationship of the Trp64Arg polymorphism of the beta3-adrenoceptor gene to central adiposity and high blood pressure: interaction with age.
Capsaicin significantly decreased lung levels of SP but not NKA.
After 15 minutes of local ACE inhibition, the vasoconstrictor response to Ang I was completely blocked by both ACE inhibitors.
Castration normalizes the blood pressure of Cyp 4a14 (-/-) mice and minimizes Cyp 4a12 expression and arachidonate omega-hydroxylation.
We evaluated NO plasmatic levels, endothelial damage markers such as von Willebrand factor (vWF), platelet activation, soluble P-selectin (sP-Sel), TNFalpha levels, insulinaemia (I), glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), glycaemia and blood pressure in 32 hypertensive diabetic type II patients (Group A), 37 hypertensive patients (Group B) and 35 healthy subjects (Group C) matched in sex, age, body mass index and dietary habits.
HIF-1 promotes neovascularization in response to myocardial or retinal ischemia by activating transcription of the gene encoding vascular endothelial growth factor.
These agents have a common mechanism of action--blockade of the binding of angiotensin II to the subtype 1 receptor--and their binding to this receptor is generally insurmountable.
These agents bind selectively to angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptors, specifically blocking the renin-angiotensin system at the last step in its cascade.
This may be caused, in part, by a decreased interaction between G(s)alpha and NHE3 in BBM secondary to impaired D(1)-like receptor function.
In WKY rats, fenoldopam increased G(s)alpha/NHE3 binding to the same extent in 2-wk-old (1.5-fold, n = 4) and adult (1.5-fold, n = 4) rats.
In contrast, in SHRs, fenoldopam decreased the amount of G(s)alpha bound to NHE3 in 2-wk-old SHRs and had no effect in 4-wk-old and adult SHRs.
The role of hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance in the development of hypertension is an area of much current interest.
Plasma endothelin-1 and big endothelin-1 levels did not correlate with blood pressure (r=0.09, -0.002 respectively) and were not influenced by parental blood pressure.
Finally, the mechanism responsible for the altered renal microcirculation involves dysregulation of intrinsic mechanisms(myogenic responses and tubuloglomerular feedback) as well as various local factors, in particular, angiotensin II, nitric oxide, and oxidative stress.
The localization and abundance of Gs protein were determined immunohistochemically in 4-, 10- and 20-week-old SHR and age-matched WKY (control), as well as in RHR.
To assess the roles of polyamines (putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the rate-limiting enzyme of polyamine synthesis, in the development of salt-sensitive hypertension, we evaluated activity and expression of ODC, urinary polyamine excretion, and antizyme (endogenous ODC inhibitor protein) expression in Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) and salt-resistant (SR) rats after they were fed on a low (0.3%) or high (4%) salt diet for 4 weeks.
We also examined the effects of spermidine and difluoromethylornithine (DFMO: a specific inhibitor of ODC) on the systolic blood pressure and ODC protein expression in SS rats fed a high salt diet.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) converts angiotensin I into angiotensin II, and neutral endopeptidase (NEP) degrades the natriuretic peptides.
The results show differential regulation of RAS components, AGT, ACE and Ang II, between brain and periphery in cold-exposed rats.
We tested the hypothesis that endothelin-converting enzyme (ECE) inhibition ameliorates end-organ damage in rats harboring both human renin and human angiotensinogen genes (dTGR).
The present study assessed the contribution of COX-2 in three different rat models of hypertension, each characterized by a different activation of the renal renin-angiotensin system.
We have therefore investigated the bradykinin B1-receptor (B1R) and B2-receptor (B2R) mRNA expression in rat models of MI, LVH and diabetes mellitus (DM).
WNK1 is cytoplasmic in kidney, colon, gallbladder, sweat duct, skin, and esophagus; in contrast, it localizes to the lateral membrane in bile ducts, pancreatic ducts, and epididymis.
By targeting the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) for degradation, NEDD4L is a significant determinant of sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron.
To determine whether VEGF inhibition during late gestation causes pulmonary hypertension, we treated fetal lambs with EYE001, an aptamer that specifically inhibits VEGF(165).
To determine whether lung VEGF expression is decreased in an experimental model of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), we measured lung VEGF and VEGF receptor protein content from fetal lambs 7-10 days after ductus arteriosus ligation (132-140 days gestation; term = 147 days).
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that plasma concentrations of matrix metallo-proteinase-2 (MMP-2) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), two enzymes that share similar substrate specificity (collagen type IV and V), possibly related to vascular remodelling, are altered in essential hypertension.
Basal NKA activity, D(1) receptor protein expression, and their coupling to G proteins were similar in cells from both groups.
Heme oxygenase (HO) degrades heme to carbon monoxide (CO), ferrous ions, and the bile pigment biliverdin, which is subsequently reduced to the other important bile pigment, bilirubin, by biliverdin reductase.
We also evaluated SHR erectile function before and after intracavernosal injection of either the specific Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 or a combination of Y-27632 and the PDE5 inhibitor zaprinast to prevent cGMP degradation.
HS treatment blocked ANG II induced expression of IL-6 and ICAM-1 in the heart.





