When taking these medications, call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following: Nausea or vomiting Loss of appetite A yellow color to your skin(jaundice) Dark urine A fever that lasts three or more days and has no obvious cause.
Possible signs and symptoms include Fever Headache Muscle aches and joint pain Rash Sore throat and painful mouth sores Swollen lymph glands, mainly on the neck.
you may develop mild infections or chronic signs and symptoms such as Fever Fatigue Swollen lymph nodes — often one of the first signs of HIV infection Diarrhea Weight loss Oral yeast infection (thrush)Shingles (herpes zoster).
Mesh rejection can be detected by obvious , sometimes localized swelling and pain around the mesh area .
I had Norco prescribed for pain , a good idea , but causes constipation .
The signs and symptoms of some of these infections may include Soaking night sweats Recurring fever Chronic diarrhea Persistent white spots or unusual lesions on your tongue or in your mouth Persistent, unexplained fatigue Weight loss Skin rashes or bumps.
Bronchitis makes you cough a lot.
After a few days , it progresses to a wetter or productive cough , which may be accompanied by fever , fatigue , and headache .
A physical examination will often reveal decreased intensity of breath sounds , wheezing , rhonchi , and prolonged expiration .
Hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis, can cause: Sneezing Itching of the nose, eyes or roof of the mouth Runny, stuffy nose Watery, red or swollen eyes (conjunctivitis).
While it ’ s unclear how H. pylori spreads , it can result in stomach inflammation , loss of appetite , nausea , bloating , and abdominal pain .
A food allergy can cause: Tingling in the mouth Swelling of the lips, tongue, face or throat Hives Anaphylaxis.
Others might occur as a result of : Increased pressure within the abdomen , A pre-existing weak spot in the abdominal wall , A combination of increased pressure within the abdomen and a pre-existing weak spot in the abdominal wall , Straining during bowel movements or urination , Strenuous activity , Pregnancy , Chronic coughing or sneezing.
Other symptoms that may occur along with the hernia such as chest pain should be properly evaluated.
Increased pressure in the abdomen such as from pregnancy , obesity , coughing , or straining during bowel movements may also play a role.
Get medical help right away if any of the following occur : vomiting blood , rapid heartbeat , difficulty breathing or swallowing , extreme drowsiness , passing out suddenly , confusion , Chronic gastritis puts you at risk for bleeding in your stomach and small intestine .
An insect sting allergy can cause: A large area of swelling (edema) at the sting site Itching or hives all over the body Cough, chest tightness, wheezing or shortness of breath Anaphylaxis.
When a bacterial infection is the cause of atrophic gastritis , a person may notice symptoms that include : unusual or unintended weight loss , vomiting , lack of appetite , nausea , iron deficiency anemia , pain in the stomach , ulcers , When autoimmune atrophic gastritis is the cause , a person may notice symptoms of a vitamin B-12 deficiency and pernicious anemia .
A drug allergy can cause: Hives Itchy skin Rash Facial swelling Wheezing Anaphylaxis.
But people who do have symptoms often experience : upper abdominal pain , indigestion , bloating , nausea , vomiting , belching , loss of appetite , weight loss , The following can irritate the lining of your stomach and lead to chronic gastritis : long-term use of certain medications , such as aspirin and ibuprofen , excessive alcohol consumption , the presence of H. pylori bacteria , certain illnesses , such as diabetes or kidney failure , a weakened immune system , persistent , intense stress that also affects the immune system , bile flowing into the stomach , or bile reflux , Your risk for chronic gastritis increases if your lifestyle and dietary habits activate changes in the stomach lining .
Symptoms include : pain in the chest , general fatigue , tinnitus or ringing in the ears , dizziness , lightheadedness , heart palpitations , A vitamin B-12 deficiency can , in some cases , result in nerve damage .
Other symptoms of severe gastritis include shortness of breath , chest pain , severe stomach pain , and foul-smelling bowel movements .
Seek urgent medical evaluation if any of the following symptoms occur : vomiting blood , bringing up excessive amounts of yellow or green vomit , black or bloody bowel movements , abdominal pain with fever , dizziness and fainting , rapid heartbeat , excessive sweating , shortness of breath , Gastritis may occur without any symptoms at all .
Atopic dermatitis, an allergic skin condition also called eczema, can cause skin to: Itch Redden Flake or peel.
Signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis include: Loss of consciousness A drop in blood pressure Severe shortness of breath Skin rash Lightheadedness A rapid, weak pulse Nausea and vomiting.
Depending on the cause of the amnesia, other signs and symptoms may include: False memories (confabulation), either completely invented or made up of genuine memories misplaced in time Confusion or disorientation.
Having anemia may make you feel tired and weak.
Factors that strain your body and may cause a hernia , especially if your muscles are weak , include : being pregnant , which puts pressure on your abdomen , being constipated , which causes you to strain when having a bowel movement , lifting heavy weight , fluid in the abdomen , or ascites , suddenly gaining weight , surgery in the area , persistent coughing or sneezing.
The health care professional seeks clues of obstruction , including a history of pain , nausea , vomiting , or fever .
Symptoms include : pain in the chest , general fatigue , tinnitus or ringing in the ears , dizziness , lightheadedness , heart palpitations , .
When a bacterial infection is the cause of atrophic gastritis, a person may notice symptoms that include: unusual or unintended weight loss, vomiting, lack of appetite, nausea, iron deficiency anemia, pain in the stomach, ulcers.
They may include: Fatigue Weakness Pale or yellowish skin Irregular heartbeats Shortness of breath Dizziness or lightheadedness Chest pain Cold hands and feet Headache.
Angina, which may also be called angina pectoris, is often described as squeezing, pressure, heaviness, tightness or pain in your chest.
Some people with angina symptoms describe angina as feeling like a vise is squeezing their chest or feeling like a heavy weight has been placed on their chest.
Although angina is relatively common, it can still be hard to distinguish from other types of chest pain, such as the pain or discomfort of indigestion.
If you have unexplained chest pain, seek medical attention right away.
Angina symptoms include: Chest pain or discomfort, possibly described as pressure, squeezing, burning or fullness Pain in your arms, neck, jaw, shoulder or back accompanying chest pain Nausea Fatigue Shortness of breath Sweating Dizziness.
These symptoms need to be evaluated immediately by a doctor who can determine whether you have stable angina, or unstable angina that may indicate a possible heart attack.
For example, chest pain is a common symptom in women with angina, but it may not be the only symptom or the most prevalent symptom for women.
Women may also experience symptoms such as: Nausea Shortness of breath Abdominal pain Discomfort in the neck, jaw or back Stabbing pain instead of chest pressure.
Signs and symptoms of appendicitis may include: Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower abdomen Sudden pain that begins around your navel and often shifts to your lower right abdomen Pain that worsens if you cough, walk or make other jarring movements Nausea and vomiting Loss of appetite Low-grade fever that may worsen as the illness progresses Constipation or diarrhea Abdominal bloating.
The main symptoms of arthritis are joint pain and stiffness, which typically worsen with age.
The most common signs and symptoms of arthritis involve the joints.
You end up with a nagging cough and a lot more mucus.
Depending on the type of arthritis you have, your signs and symptoms may include: Pain Stiffness Swelling Redness Decreased range of motion.
This can make breathing difficult and trigger coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath.
Asthma signs and symptoms include: Shortness of breath Chest tightness or pain Trouble sleeping caused by shortness of breath, coughing or wheezing A whistling or wheezing sound when exhaling (wheezing is a common sign of asthma in children) Coughing or wheezing attacks that are worsened by a respiratory virus, such as a cold or the flu.
Often developing from a cold or other respiratory infection , acute bronchitis is very common.
Umbilical hernias are most common in babies with a low birth weight and premature babies .
The risk of hiatal hernia is higher in people who : are aged 50 years or over , have obesity , .
Unpleasant side effects of mercury treatment included gum ulcers and loose teeth .
You end up with a nagging cough and a lot more mucus.
In its early stages , the great pox produced a rash similar to smallpox ( also known as variola ) .
Another neurologic disorder , tabes dorsalis , or locomotor ataxia , is produced by degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord ; it brings on intense back pain , lack of muscular coordination , and wasting .
This usually produces severe pain and tenderness of the area .
There may be a symmetrical , reddish-pink , non-itchy rash on the trunk and extremities , including the palms and soles .
If congenital syphilis is not treated , blindness , deafness , perforation of the palate , inflammation of the liver , and involvement of the central nervous system may ensue .
Chronic bronchitis is a serious , ongoing illness characterized by a persistent , mucus-producing cough that lasts longer than 3 months out of the year for more than 2 years .
About 50 % of individuals have a productive cough with either clear , yellow , greenish , or occasionally blood tinged sputum .
One of these is whooping cough , which is also called pertussis .
Both acute and chronic bronchitis have similar symptoms like chronic cough and wheezing .
It causes violent coughing that makes it hard to breathe .
It can be a miserable , but minor , illness that follows a viral illness like the common cold -- or may follow a more serious condition like a chronic smoker 's hack .
Chronic bronchitis is defined as a cough that occurs every day with sputum production that lasts for at least 3 months , two years in a row .
The most common symptom is a cough .
A cough , phlegm , and feeling tired are typical symptoms of bronchitis , but these are also symptoms of other illnesses , so getting the right diagnosis and treatment is important .
However , a cough that refuses to go away could also be a sign of another illness such as asthma or pneumonia .
Obesity has also been linked to an increased risk for chronic bronchitis .
For some people who have wheezing with their cough , bronchodilators ( beta2 agonists ) may be helpful .
The cough is often worse soon after awakening , and the sputum produced may have a yellow or green color and may be streaked with specks of blood .
In addition , a fever may be present .
People with this condition often have a phlegmy cough , but even if you are in close contact with them when they are coughing , if the illness is not caused by infection , you won ’ t catch it .
Another common sign of bronchitis is a cough which lasts ten days to three weeks .
She ’ ll also listen to your lungs to see whether anything sounds wrong , like wheezing .
Acute bronchitis usually has a cough that lasts around three weeks .
If you are 75 or older and you have an ongoing cough , you should call your doctor to figure out whether a visit is needed .
Even after the other symptoms are gone , the cough can last for a few weeks while your bronchial tubes heal and the swelling goes down .
Repeated bouts of severe heartburn can irritate your throat and make you more prone to developing bronchitis.
If you have chronic bronchitis , you 're likely to have periods when your cough or other symptoms worsen .
For either acute bronchitis or chronic bronchitis, signs and symptoms may include: Cough Production of mucus (sputum), which can be clear, white, yellowish-gray or green in color rarely, it may be streaked with blood Fatigue Shortness of breath Slight fever and chills Chest discomfort.
General signs and symptoms caused by brain tumors may include: New onset or change in pattern of headaches Headaches that gradually become more frequent and more severe Unexplained nausea or vomiting Vision problems, such as blurred vision, double vision or loss of peripheral vision Gradual loss of sensation or movement in an arm or a leg Difficulty with balance Speech difficulties Confusion in everyday matters Personality or behavior changes Seizures, especially in someone who doesn't have a history of seizures Hearing problems.
Signs and symptoms of foodborne botulism include: Difficulty swallowing or speaking Dry mouth Facial weakness on both sides of the face Blurred or double vision Drooping eyelids Trouble breathing Nausea, vomiting and abdominal cramps Paralysis.
Wound botulism signs and symptoms include: Difficulty swallowing or speaking Facial weakness on both sides of the face Blurred or double vision Drooping eyelids Trouble breathing Paralysis.
Signs and symptoms include: Constipation (often the first sign) Floppy movements due to muscle weakness and trouble controlling the head Weak cry Irritability Drooling Drooping eyelids Tiredness Difficulty sucking or feeding Paralysis.
Some general signs and symptoms associated with, but not specific to, cancer, include: Fatigue Lump or area of thickening that can be felt under the skin Weight changes, including unintended loss or gain Skin changes, such as yellowing, darkening or redness of the skin, sores that won't heal, or changes to existing moles Changes in bowel or bladder habits Persistent cough or trouble breathing Difficulty swallowing Hoarseness Persistent indigestion or discomfort after eating Persistent, unexplained muscle or joint pain Persistent, unexplained fevers or night sweats Unexplained bleeding or bruising.
Most symptomatic cases of cholera cause mild or moderate diarrhea that's often hard to distinguish from diarrhea caused by other problems.
Dehydration can develop within hours after the onset of cholera symptoms.
Occurring especially in the early stages of cholera, vomiting may persist for hours at a time.
Increased pressure within the abdomen may occur in a variety of situations including chronic cough , increased fluid within the abdominal cavity ( ascites ) , peritoneal dialysis used to treat kidney failure , and tumors or masses in the abdomen .
Cholera-related diarrhea comes on suddenly and may quickly cause dangerous fluid loss.
Signs and symptoms of cholera dehydration include irritability, lethargy, sunken eyes, a dry mouth, extreme thirst, dry and shriveled skin that's slow to bounce back when pinched into a fold, little or no urine output, low blood pressure, and an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia).
In general, children with cholera have the same signs and symptoms adults do, but they are particularly susceptible to low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) due to fluid loss, which may cause: An altered state of consciousness Seizures Coma.
When signs and symptoms do occur, they may include: Fatigue Bleeding easily Bruising easily Itchy skin Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes (jaundice) Fluid accumulation in your abdomen (ascites) Loss of appetite Nausea Swelling in your legs Weight loss Confusion, drowsiness and slurred speech (hepatic encephalopathy) Spiderlike blood vessels on your skin Redness in the palms of the hands Testicular atrophy in men Breast enlargement in men.
Other signs and symptoms, which may appear one to two days before the rash, include: Fever Loss of appetite Headache Tiredness and a general feeling of being unwell (malaise).
Once the chickenpox rash appears, it goes through three phases: Raised pink or red bumps (papules), which break out over several days Small fluid-filled blisters (vesicles), forming from the raised bumps over about one day before breaking and leaking Crusts and scabs, which cover the broken blisters and take several more days to heal.
Dengue fever causes a high fever — 104 F degrees — and at least two of the following symptoms: Headache Muscle, bone and joint pain Nausea Vomiting Pain behind the eyes Swollen glands Rash.
Signs and symptoms of dengue hemorrhagic fever or severe dengue — a life-threatening emergency — include: Severe abdominal pain Persistent vomiting Bleeding from your gums or nose Blood in your urine, stools or vomit Bleeding under the skin, which might look like bruising Difficult or rapid breathing Cold or clammy skin (shock) Fatigue Irritability or restlessness.
Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room if you've recently visited a region in which dengue fever is known to occur and you develop emergency symptoms, such as severe abdominal pain, vomiting, difficulty breathing, or blood in your nose, gums, vomit or stools.
Some of the signs and symptoms of type 1 and type 2 diabetes are: Increased thirst Frequent urination Extreme hunger Unexplained weight loss Presence of ketones in the urine (ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin) Fatigue Irritability Blurred vision Slow-healing sores Frequent infections, such as gums or skin infections and vaginal infections.
Diphtheria typically causes a sore throat, fever, swollen glands and weakness.
Diphtheria signs and symptoms usually begin two to five days after a person becomes infected and may include: A thick, gray membrane covering your throat and tonsils A sore throat and hoarseness Swollen glands (enlarged lymph nodes) in your neck Difficulty breathing or rapid breathing Nasal discharge Fever and chills Malaise.
A second type of diphtheria can affect the skin, causing the typical pain, redness and swelling associated with other bacterial skin infections.
Encephalitis can also cause confused thinking, seizures, or problems with senses or movement.
Encephalitis often causes only mild flu-like signs and symptoms — such as a fever or headache — or no symptoms at all.
Most people with viral encephalitis have mild flu-like symptoms, such as: Headache Fever Aches in muscles or joints Fatigue or weakness.
Sometimes the signs and symptoms are more severe, and might include: Confusion, agitation or hallucinations Seizures Loss of sensation or paralysis in certain areas of the face or body Muscle weakness Problems with speech or hearing Loss of consciousness.
In infants and young children, signs and symptoms might also include: Bulging in the soft spots (fontanels) of an infant's skull Nausea and vomiting Body stiffness Poor feeding or not waking for a feeding Irritability.
Severe headache, fever and altered consciousness require urgent care.
However , the most common symptoms include : Nausea or recurrent upset stomach , Abdominal bloating , Abdominal pain , Vomiting , Indigestion , Burning or gnawing feeling in the stomach between meals or at night , Hiccups , Loss of appetite , Vomiting blood or coffee ground-like material , Black , tarry stools , To diagnose gastritis , your doctor will review your personal and family medical history , perform a thorough physical evaluation , and may recommend any of the following tests : Upper endoscopy.
Signs and symptoms typically begin abruptly within five to 10 days of infection with Ebola or Marburg virus.
Hiatal hernias almost always cause gastroesophageal reflux , which is when the stomach contents leak backward into the esophagus , causing a burning sensation .
Symptoms of severe gastritis may include : Vomiting blood , Blood in the stool , Anemia , Acute gastritis lasts for about 2-10 days .
Symptoms of gastritis include : Upper abdominal pain , Burning , Heartburn , Symptoms of chronic gastritis include : Feelings of fullness , Nausea , Intestinal gas , Gastritis is inflammation of the lining of the stomach .
Early signs and symptoms include: Fever Severe headache Joint and muscle aches Chills Weakness.
Common causes of muscle weakness include : failure of the abdominal wall to close properly in the womb , which is a congenital defect , age , chronic coughing , damage from injury or surgery.
Hiatal hernias almost always cause gastroesophageal reflux , which is when the stomach contents leak backward into the esophagus , causing a burning sensation.
Anything that causes an increase in pressure in the abdomen can cause a hernia , including : Lifting heavy objects without stabilizing the abdominal muscles , Diarrhea or constipation , Persistent coughing or sneezing.
A hiatal hernia can produce symptoms of acid reflux , such as heartburn , which is caused by stomach acid getting into the esophagus .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if an inguinal hernia produces acute abdominal complaints such as : pain , nausea , vomiting , the bulge can not be pushed back into the abdomen.
The signs and symptoms of gastritis include : Gnawing or burning ache or pain ( indigestion ) in your upper abdomen that may become either worse or better with eating , Nausea , Vomiting , A feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating , Gastritis does n't always cause signs and symptoms .
Over time, symptoms become increasingly severe and may include: Nausea and vomiting Diarrhea (may be bloody) Red eyes Raised rash Chest pain and cough Sore throat Stomach pain Severe weight loss Bruising Bleeding, usually from the eyes, and when close to death, possible bleeding from the ears, nose and rectum Internal bleeding.
As the illness progresses, it can cause: Multiple organ failure Severe bleeding Jaundice Delirium Seizures Coma Shock.
Prevention tips include : not smoking , seeing your doctor when you ’ re sick to avoid developing a persistent cough , maintaining a healthy body weight , avoiding straining during bowel movements or urination , lifting objects with your knees and not your back , avoiding lifting weights that are too heavy for you.
People may experience: Hair loss Sensory changes Liver inflammation (hepatitis) Weakness Fatigue Headaches Eye inflammation Testicular inflammation.
Signs and symptoms of gonorrhea infection in men include: Painful urination Pus-like discharge from the tip of the penis Pain or swelling in one testicle.
Signs and symptoms of gonorrhea infection in women include: Increased vaginal discharge Painful urination Vaginal bleeding between periods, such as after vaginal intercourse Painful intercourse Abdominal or pelvic pain.
Make an appointment with your doctor if you notice any troubling signs or symptoms, such as a burning sensation when you urinate or a pus-like discharge from your penis, vagina or rectum.
If a gallstone lodges in a duct and causes a blockage, the resulting signs and symptoms may include: Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the upper right portion of your abdomen Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the center of your abdomen, just below your breastbone Back pain between your shoulder blades Pain in your right shoulder Nausea or vomiting.
Seek immediate care if you develop signs and symptoms of a serious gallstone complication, such as: Abdominal pain so intense that you can't sit still or find a comfortable position Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes High fever with chills.
The signs and symptoms of gastritis include: Gnawing or burning ache or pain (indigestion) in your upper abdomen that may become either worse or better with eating Nausea Vomiting A feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating.
If you do, hepatitis signs and symptoms can include: Fatigue Sudden nausea and vomiting Abdominal pain or discomfort, especially on the upper right side beneath your lower ribs (by your liver) Clay-colored bowel movements Loss of appetite Low-grade fever Dark urine Joint pain Yellowing of the skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice) Intense itching.
Hepatitis B signs and symptoms may include: Abdominal pain Dark urine Fever Joint pain Loss of appetite Nausea and vomiting Weakness and fatigue Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice).
Among these signs and symptoms are: Bleeding easily Bruising easily Fatigue Poor appetite Yellow discoloration of the skin and eyes (jaundice) Dark-colored urine Itchy skin Fluid buildup in your abdomen (ascites) Swelling in your legs Weight loss Confusion, drowsiness and slurred speech (hepatic encephalopathy) Spider-like blood vessels on your skin (spider angiomas).
When signs and symptoms are present, they may include jaundice, along with fatigue, nausea, fever and muscle aches.
But larger hiatal hernias can cause: Heartburn Regurgitation of food or liquids into the mouth Backflow of stomach acid into the esophagus (acid reflux) Difficulty swallowing Chest or abdominal pain Shortness of breath Vomiting of blood or passing of black stools, which may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding.
Common signs and symptoms of the flu include: Fever over 100.4 F (38 C) Aching muscles, especially in your back, arms and legs Chills and sweats Headache Dry, persistent cough Fatigue and weakness Nasal congestion Sore throat.
Initially, the flu may seem like a common cold with a runny nose, sneezing and sore throat.
Signs and symptoms of viral hemorrhagic fevers vary by disease.
In general, initial symptoms may include: High fever Fatigue Dizziness Muscle, bone or joint aches Weakness.
Other signs and symptoms of severe infections can include: Shock Nervous system malfunctions Coma Delirium Kidney failure Respiratory fever Liver failure Sepsis.
The most common combinations of medications for active TB disease include: isoniazid ethambutol (Myambutol) pyrazinamide rifampin (Rifadin, Rimactane) rifapentine (Priftin).
These particular medications can affect your liver, so people taking TB medications should be aware of liver-injury symptoms, such as: appetite loss dark urine fever lasting longer than three days unexplained nausea or vomiting jaundice, or yellowing of the skin abdominal pain.
Symptoms generally last for about 10 days and can include: sudden, high fever (up to 106 degrees Fahrenheit) severe headache swollen lymph glands severe joint and muscle pains skin rash (appearing between two and five days after the initial fever) mild to severe nausea mild to severe vomiting mild bleeding from the nose or gums mild bruising on the skin febrile convulsions.
Extreme fatigue is often the first and most prominent symptom.
Other symptoms include: diarrhea fever headache muscle pain stomach pain unexplained bleeding or bruising vomiting.
hese may also reveal: either unusually low or high white blood cell counts low platelet counts elevated liver enzymes abnormal coagulation factor levels.
The classic symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhea that lasts a few days.
Vomiting and muscle cramps may also occur.
This may result in sunken eyes, cold skin, decreased skin elasticity, and wrinkling of the hands and feet.
The primary symptoms of cholera are profuse diarrhea and vomiting of clear fluid.
Patients can be lethargic, and might have sunken eyes, dry mouth, cold clammy skin, or wrinkled hands and feet.
Kussmaul breathing, a deep and labored breathing pattern, can occur because of acidosis from stool bicarbonate losses and lactic acidosis associated with poor perfusion.
Blood pressure drops due to dehydration, peripheral pulse is rapid and thready, and urine output decreases with time.
Muscle cramping and weakness, altered consciousness, seizures, or even coma due to electrolyte imbalances are common, especially in children.
Cholera symptoms and signs include a rapid onset of copious, smelly diarrhea that resembles rice water and may lead to signs of dehydration (for example, vomiting, wrinkled skin, low blood pressure, dry mouth, rapid heart rate).
The diarrhea is frequently accompanied by vomiting, and the patient rapidly becomes dehydrated.
The patient is very thirsty and has a dry tongue.
The blood pressure falls, the pulse becomes faint, and muscular cramps may become severe.
The patient’s eyes become hollow and sunken, and the skin becomes wrinkled, giving the hands the appearance of “washerwoman’s hands.”
Children may also experience fever, lethargy, and seizures as a result of the extreme dehydration.
The disease is characterized by extreme fever, rash, and profuse hemorrhaging.
Infected persons may develop fever, severe headaches and muscle aches, and loss of appetite.
Nausea, vomiting and diarrhea with blood and mucus, conjunctivitis, and sore throat soon follow.
A maculopapular rash (discoloured elevations of the skin) appears on the trunk and quickly spreads to the limbs and head.
Persons who survive Ebola infection may experience post-Ebola syndrome, symptoms of which include vision problems (potentially blindness), headaches, severe joint and muscle pain, and extreme fatigue.
Ebola virus disease (EVD) is often characterized by the abrupt onset of fever, intense weakness, muscle pain, headache, and sore throat.
Signs and symptoms include: fever headache joint and muscle aches weakness diarrhea vomiting stomach pain lack of appetite.
Some patients may experience: rash red eyes hiccups cough sore throat chest pain difficulty breathing difficulty swallowing bleeding inside and outside of the body.
Early on, Ebola can feel like the flu or other illnesses.
Symptoms show up 2 to 21 days after infection and usually include: High fever Headache Joint and muscle aches Sore throat Weakness Stomach pain Lack of appetite.
Signs and symptoms typically start between two days and three weeks after contracting the virus with a fever, sore throat, muscular pain, and headaches.
Vomiting, diarrhea and rash usually follow, along with decreased function of the liver and kidneys.
This is often due to low blood pressure from fluid loss, and typically follows six to sixteen days after symptoms appear.
Symptoms usually begin with a sudden influenza-like stage characterized by feeling tired, fever, weakness, decreased appetite, muscular pain, joint pain, headache, and sore throat.
This is often followed by nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and sometimes hiccups.
The combination of severe vomiting and diarrhea often leads to severe dehydration.
Next, shortness of breath and chest pain may occur, along with swelling, headaches, and confusion.
In about half of the cases, the skin may develop a maculopapular rash, a flat red area covered with small bumps, five to seven days after symptoms begin.
his may cause vomiting blood, coughing up of blood, or blood in stool.
The classic symptoms of active TB are a chronic cough with blood-containing sputum, fever, night sweats, and weight loss.
Significant nail clubbing may also occur.
General signs and symptoms include fever, chills, night sweats, loss of appetite, weight loss, and fatigue.
Typical symptoms include a persistent cough - sometimes with phlegm that is bloody, weight loss, night sweats, high temperature (fever), tiredness and fatigue, loss of appetite and swellings.
This can make breathing difficult and trigger coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath.
Symptoms of the narrowing include wheezing (a hissing sound while breathing), chest tightness, breathing problems, and coughing.
Some symptoms of COPD are similar to asthma, including wheezing, shortness of breath, and cough.
Symptoms that might suggest conditions other than asthma include new symptom onset in older age, the presence of associated symptoms (such as chest discomfort, lightheadedness, palpitations, and fatigue), and lack of response to appropriate medications for asthma.
Some symptoms of COPD are similar to asthma, including wheezing, shortness of breath, and cough.
For instance, allergic rhinitis, also known as hay fever, causes irritation of the nose, sneezing, itching, and redness of the eyes.
Inhaled allergens can also lead to increased production of mucus in the lungs, shortness of breath, coughing, and wheezing.
Symptoms of food allergy include abdominal pain, bloating, vomiting, diarrhea, itchy skin, and swelling of the skin during hives. Food allergies rarely cause respiratory (asthmatic) reactions, or rhinitis.
Depending on the rate of severity, anaphylaxis can include skin reactions, bronchoconstriction, swelling, low blood pressure, coma, and death.
Symptoms may include red eyes, an itchy rash, sneezing, a runny nose, shortness of breath, or swelling.
There may be no symptoms but, when symptoms are present, the most common is upper abdominal pain.
Other possible symptoms include nausea and vomiting, bloating, loss of appetite and heartburn.
Complications may include bleeding, stomach ulcers, and stomach tumors.
However, upper central abdominal pain is the most common symptom; the pain may be dull, vague, burning, aching, gnawing, sore, or sharp.
Pain is usually located in the upper central portion of the abdomen,[12] but it may occur anywhere from the upper left portion of the abdomen around to the back.
Symptoms of gastritis vary among individuals, and in many people there are no symptoms. However, the most common symptoms include: Nausea or recurrent upset stomach Abdominal bloating Abdominal pain Vomiting Indigestion Burning or gnawing feeling in the stomach between meals or at night Hiccups Loss of appetite Vomiting blood or coffee ground-like material Black, tarry stools.
Symptoms of gastritis are indigestion (burning pain in upper abdomen or "pit" of the stomach), nausea or vomiting, pain in the upper abdomen.
In people who have gastritis symptoms, pain or discomfort in the upper abdomen are the most common symptoms.
Pain in your upper tummy (abdomen) just below the breastbone (sternum) is the common symptom.
Possible signs and symptoms include a lump, abnormal bleeding, prolonged cough, unexplained weight loss and a change in bowel movements.
Ulceration can cause bleeding that, if it occurs in the lung, will lead to coughing up blood, in the bowels to anemia or rectal bleeding, in the bladder to blood in the urine and in the uterus to vaginal bleeding.
Although localized pain may occur in advanced cancer, the initial swelling is usually painless.
These may include: unintentional weight loss, fever, excessive fatigue and changes to the skin.
and signs depend on the specific type and grade of cancer; although general signs and symptoms are not very specific the following can be found in patients with different cancers: , , pain, skin changes, change in bowel or bladder function, unusual bleeding, persistent or voice change, , lumps, or tissue masses.
For example, breast cancer may present as a lump in the breast or as while metastatic breast cancer may present with symptoms of pain (if spread to bones), extreme (), or (brain).
Change in bowel or bladder habits A that does not heal Unusual bleeding or discharge (for example, secretions or a "sore" that will not heal that oozes material) Thickening or lump in the breast, testicles, or elsewhere (usually chronic) or Obvious change in the size, color, shape, or thickness of a wart or mole Nagging or Other signs or symptoms may also alert you or your doctor to the possibility of your having some form of cancer.
These include the following: Unexplained loss of weight or A new type of pain in the bones or other parts of the body that may be steadily worsening, or come and go, but is unlike previous pains one has had before Persistent , , or Unexplained low-grade fevers with may be either persistent or come and go Recurring infections which will not clear with usual treatment.
For example, may present with common symptoms of pain, but usually the pain is located in the chest.
The patient may have unusual bleeding, but the bleeding usually occurs when the patient.
Lung cancer patients often become short of breath and then become very fatigued.
Common signs and symptoms of tetanus include: Spasms and stiffness in your jaw muscles (trismus) Stiffness of your neck muscles Difficulty swallowing Stiffness of your abdominal muscles Painful body spasms lasting for several minutes, typically triggered by minor occurrences, such as a draft, loud noise, physical touch or light.
Possible other signs and symptoms include: Fever Sweating Elevated blood pressure Rapid heart rate.
Tetanus infection has been associated with: crush injuries injuries with dead tissue burns puncture wounds from piercings, tattoos, injection drug use, or injury (such as stepping on a nail) wounds contaminated with dirt, feces, or saliva.
Less commonly, it’s been associated with: animal bites dental infections insect bites chronic sores and infections.
Tetanus affects the nerves that control your muscles, which can lead to difficulty swallowing.
You may also experience spasms and stiffness in various muscles, especially those in your jaw, abdomen, chest, back, and neck.
Other common tetanus symptoms are: fast heart rate fever sweating high blood pressure.
In addition, you may notice restlessness, lack of appetite, and drooling.
You should suspect tetanus if a cut or wound is followed by one or more of these symptoms: Stiffness of the neck, jaw, and other muscles, often accompanied by a grotesque, grinning expression Difficulty swallowing Irritability Uncontrollable spasms of the jaw, called lockjaw, and neck muscles Painful, involuntary contraction of other muscles.
The early symptoms of tetanus include diarrhea, fever, and headache.
Muscle symptoms include spasms and stiffness. Stiffness usually starts with the chewing muscles, hence the name lockjaw.
Muscle spasms then spread to the neck and throat, causing difficulties with swallowing.
Patients often have spasms in their facial muscles.
Breathing difficulties may result from neck and chest muscle stiffness.
In severe cases, the spine will arch backward as the back muscles become affected.
Most individuals with tetanus will also have the following symptoms: bloody stools diarrhea fever headache sensitivity to touch sore throat sweating rapid heartbeat.
Signs and symptoms of active TB include : Coughing that lasts three or more weeks , Coughing up blood , Chest pain , or pain with breathing or coughing , Unintentional weight loss , Fatigue , Fever , Night sweats , Chills , Loss of appetite , Tuberculosis can also affect other parts of your body , including your kidneys , spine or brain .
When TB occurs outside your lungs , signs and symptoms vary according to the organs involved .
For example , tuberculosis of the spine may give you back pain , and tuberculosis in your kidneys might cause blood in your urine .
See your doctor if you have a fever , unexplained weight loss , drenching night sweats or a persistent cough .
These are often signs of TB , but they can also result from other medical problems .
When taking these medications , call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following : Nausea or vomiting , Loss of appetite , A yellow color to your skin ( jaundice ) , Dark urine , A fever that lasts three or more days and has no obvious cause , After a few weeks , you wo n't be contagious and you may start to feel better.
Unexplained weight loss , Fatigue , Cough , Back pain , Night sweats , Symptoms & causes , Diagnosis & treatment , Doctors & departments , Patient Care & Health Information , Diseases & Conditions , Tuberculosis , Request Appointment , Contact Us , About Mayo Clinic , Employees , Find a Job , Site Map , About This Site , Twitter , Facebook , Google , YouTube , Pinterest , Healthy Lifestyle , Symptoms A-Z , Diseases and Conditions A-Z , Tests and Procedures A-Z , Drugs and Supplements A-Z , Appointments , Patient and Visitor Guide , Billing and Insurance , Patient Online Services , Doctors and Medical Staff , Medical Departments and Centers , Research Centers and Programs , About Mayo Clinic , Contact Us , Explore Research Labs , Find Clinical Trials , Research Faculty , Postdoctoral Fellowships , Discovery 's Edge Magazine , Search Publications , Training Grant Positions , Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science , Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences , Mayo Clinic School of Medicine , Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development , Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education , Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences , Alumni Center , Provider Relations , Referring Physician Portal , AskMayoExpert , Video Center , Publications , Continuing Medical Education , Mayo Medical Laboratories , Healthy Living Program , Sports Medicine , Books and more - Mayo Clinic Marketplace , Mayo Clinic Health Letter , Medical Products , Population Health and Wellness Programs , Medical Laboratory Services , Mayo Clinic Voice Apps , Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy linked below .
Hippocrates , in Book 1 of his Of the Epidemics , describes the characteristics of the disease : fever , colorless urine , cough resulting in a thick sputa , and loss of thirst and appetite.
Burning magic talismans would cause the TB patient to cough , which was considered an effective treatment.
Generally it gives rise to a high fever , sweating , asthenia , unlocalised pains , making all positions difficult.
Vitruvius noted that cold in the windpipe , cough , plurisy , phthisis , [ and ] spitting blood , were common diseases in regions where the wind blew from north to northwest , and advised that walls be so built as to shelter individuals from the winds.
It can only be spread through air droplets originating from a person who has the disease either coughing , sneezing , speaking , or singing .
A person who has TB can be transmitted the bacteria via : sneezing , coughing , speaking , singing , People with well-functioning immune systems may not experience TB symptoms , even though they are infected with the bacteria .
This lesion may erode a neighbouring bronchus or blood vessel , causing the patient to cough up blood ( hemoptysis ).
Gastritis only directly affects the stomach and may include nausea or vomiting , while gastroenteritis affects both the stomach and the intestines .
Common symptoms include : loss of appetite , indigestion , black stools , nausea , vomiting , bloody vomit that looks like used coffee grounds , pain in the upper part of the abdomen , a full feeling in the upper abdomen after eating , Some symptoms associated with acute gastritis are also seen in other health conditions .
Cystic fibrosis impairs the function of the lungs , causing a chronic cough .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if an inguinal hernia produces acute abdominal complaints such as : pain , nausea , vomiting , the bulge can not be pushed back into the abdomen.
You ’ re more likely to feel your hernia through touch when you ’ re standing up , bending down , or coughing .
Other common symptoms of an inguinal hernia include : pain or discomfort in the affected area ( usually the lower abdomen ) , especially when bending over , coughing , or lifting , weakness , pressure , or a feeling of heaviness in the abdomen , a burning , gurgling , or aching sensation at the site of the bulge.
The factors that increase your risk of developing a hernia include : a personal or family history of hernias , being overweight or obese , a chronic cough , chronic constipation , smoking , which can trigger a chronic cough.
Other symptoms of a hiatal hernia include : acid reflux , which is when stomach acid moves backward into the esophagus causing a burning sensation , chest pain , difficulty swallowing , .
Sometimes the muscle weakness is present at birth ; more often , it occurs later in life .
About 96 % of all groin hernias are inguinal , and most occur in men because of a natural weakness in this area .
People who have their hernias repaired with mesh often recover within a month , though pain can last longer .
However , among other possible complications , prosthetic mesh usage seems to have a higher incidence of chronic pain and , sometimes , infection .
If there is concern about complications including esophageal inflammation ( esophagitis ) , ulcers , or bleeding , a gastroenterologist may need to perform an endoscopy .
Nausea , vomiting , or fever may occur in these cases due to bowel obstruction .
Vomiting , swelling of the abdomen , and diarrhea may also occur .
Some of the toxins ( B and E ) also precipitate nausea , vomiting , and difficulty with talking .
There are eight serological varieties of the bacterium denoted by the letters A to H. The toxin from all of these acts in the same way and produces similar symptoms : the motor nerve endings are prevented from releasing acetylcholine , causing flaccid paralysis and symptoms of blurred vision , ptosis , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation , cramps , and respiratory difficulty .
Reported symptoms include anorexia , refusal to drink , vomiting , pupillary dilation , and muscle paralysis .
the most common adverse effects include gastrointestinal ( gi ) upset , stomatitis , rash , neurological symptoms ( headache , fatigue , agitation ) , mild transaminitis , and macrocytosis [ ] .
a 68-year-old female with a history of rheumatoid arthritis on 10 mg mtx weekly presented to the emergency department ( ed ) with weakness , lethargy , and decreased oral intake .
hemoptysis , dyspnea ,significant sputum production , hoarseness , fever , weight loss , gord , failure of empirical treatment for gord , hematemesis , dysphagia or recurrent pneumonia.
moreover , the results of this study suggest that the main risk factors of chronic cough could differ depending on smoking status , including i ) female sex , asthma and gord in never smokers ; ii ) obesity , asthma and gord in ex-smokers and iii ) airflow limitation in current smokers .
a very recent japanese study found that exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon , nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide was associated with an increase in cough prevalence among adults with chronic cough .
in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( ipf ) , chronic dry cough is one of the predominant symptoms , associated with shortness of breath , and frequently the first occurring symptom .
clinical features of osa-related cough include snoring , nocturnal cough , nocturnal heartburn and symptoms of rhinitis .
gastritis can be caused by irritation due to excessive alcohol use , chronic vomiting , stress , or the use of certain medications such as aspirin or other anti-inflammatory drugs .
it may also be caused by any of the following : helicobacter pylori ( h. pylori ) : a bacteria that lives in the mucous lining of the stomach ; without treatment , the infection can lead to ulcers , and in some people , stomach cancer.
however , the most common symptoms include : nausea or recurrent upset stomach , abdominal bloating , abdominal pain , vomiting , indigestion , burning or gnawing
feeling in the stomach between meals or at night , hiccups , loss of appetite , vomiting blood or coffee ground-like material , black , tarry stools , .
the signs and symptoms of gastritis include : gnawing or burning ache or pain ( indigestion ) in your upper abdomen that may become either worse or better with eating , nausea , vomiting , a feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating , .
Other symptoms may include fever and a feeling of incomplete defecation .
Rapid weight loss and generalized muscle aches sometimes also accompany dysentery , while nausea and vomiting are often rare .
the initial symptoms of yellow fever are : fever and chills , flu-like symptoms such as muscle aches , headache , and vomiting , .
because there is no cure for the viral infection itself , medical treatment of yellow fever focuses on easing symptoms such as fever , muscle pain , and dehydration .
call your doctor right away if you develop a fever , flu-like symptoms , or other unusual signs after taking the vaccine .
yellow fever is a viral infection spread by a particular type of mosquito and mild cases , yellow fever causes a fever , headache , nausea and vomiting .
once the infection enters the acute phase , you may experience signs and symptoms including : fever , headache , muscle aches , particularly in your back and knees , sensitivity to light , nausea , vomiting or both , loss of appetite , dizziness , red eyes , face or tongue , .
side effects are usually mild , lasting five to 10 days , and may include headaches , low-grade fevers , muscle pain , fatigue and soreness at the site of injection .
vomiting blood , dizziness , abdominal pain , muscle pain , nausea and vomiting , headache , red eye , .
in severe cases , the viral infection causes a high fever , bleeding into the skin , and necrosis ( death ) of cells in the kidney and liver .
it ’ s characterized by a high fever and jaundice jaundice is yellowing of the skin and eyes , which is why this disease is called yellow fever .
these include : decreased urination , abdominal pain , vomiting ( sometimes with blood ) , heart rhythm problems , seizures , delirium , bleeding from the nose , mouth , and eyes , .
the side effects may include : a mild headache , muscle pain , fatigue , a low-grade fever , .
often there is a gradual onset of a high fever over several days weakness , abdominal pain , constipation , and headaches also commonly occur .
in the first week , the body temperature rises slowly , and fever fluctuations are seen with relative bradycardia ( faget sign ) , malaise , headache , and cough .
a bloody nose ( epistaxis ) is seen in a quarter of cases , and abdominal pain is also possible .
symptoms include : poor appetite , headaches , generalized aches and pains , fever as high as 104 degrees farenheit , lethargy , diarrhea , .
chest congestion develops in many people , and abdominal pain and discomfort are common .
other symptoms can include : weakness , abdominal pain , constipation , headaches , .
after the oral vaccine , there may be gastrointestinal problems , nausea , and headache .
there may be loss of appetite , nosebleeds , cough , and diarrhea or constipation .
in paratyphoid fever signs and symptoms usually include high fever , headache , abdominal pain , and either constipation or diarrhea .
in some people , signs and symptoms may return up to two weeks after the fever has subsided .
a perforated intestine occurs when your small intestine or large bowel develops a hole , causing intestinal contents to leak into your abdominal cavity and triggering signs and symptoms , such as severe abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and bloodstream infection ( sepsis ) .
typhoid fever has an insidious onset , with fever , headache , constipation , malaise , chills , and muscle pain .
several antibiotics are effective for the treatment of typhoid fever along with high fever , it can cause abdominal pains headache , and loss of appetite .
some of these symptoms are : high fever , weakness , stomach pain , headache , poor appetite , rash , fatigue , confusion , constipation , diarrhea , .
symptoms include nausea , vomiting , and severe abdominal pain .
symptoms include prolonged fever , fatigue , headache , nausea , abdominal pain , and constipation or diarrhoea some patients may have a rash .
symptoms include prolonged high fever , fatigue , headache , nausea , abdominal pain , and constipation or diarrhoea some patients may have a rash .
people who have disease often cough up thickened mucus , which can be discolored .
often developing from a cold or other respiratory infection , acute disease is very common .
if you have acute disease , you might have cold symptoms , such as a mild headache or body aches .
chronic disease is defined as a productive cough that lasts at least three months , with recurring bouts occurring for at least two consecutive years .
if you have chronic disease , you 're likely to have periods when your cough or other symptoms worsen .
see your doctor if your cough : lasts more than three weeks , prevents you from sleeping , is accompanied by fever higher than 100.4 f ( 38 c ) , produces discolored mucus , produces blood , is associated with wheezing or shortness of breath , .
repeated bouts of severe heartburn can irritate your throat and make you more prone to developing disease.
symptom checker , trouble breathing , secondhand smoke , cough , wheezing , coughing up blood , fatigue , .
a cold or the flu runs its course in a couple weeks , if you ’ re lucky and end up with a nagging cough and a lot more mucus .
you may also : have body aches and chills , feel “ wiped out ” , run a low fever , have a runny , stuffy nose , have a sore throat , .
even after the other symptoms are gone , the cough can last for a few weeks while your bronchial tubes heal and the swelling goes down .
call your doctor if your cough : brings up blood or mucus that thickens or darkens , keeps you awake at night , lasts more than 3 weeks , causes chest pain , has a barking sound and makes it hard to speak , comes along with unexplained weight loss , .
if you are 75 or older and you have an ongoing cough , you should call your doctor to figure out whether a visit is needed .
one of these is whooping cough , which is also called pertussis causes violent coughing that makes it hard to breathe .
symptoms include coughing up mucus , wheezing , shortness of breath , and chest discomfort .
acute disease is also known as a chest cold and disease usually has a cough that lasts around three weeks .
chronic disease is defined as a productive cough that lasts for three months or more per year for at least two years .
acute disease , also known as a chest cold , is short term inflammation of the bronchi of the lungs  the most common symptom is a cough .
other symptoms include coughing up mucus , wheezing , shortness of breath , fever , and chest discomfort .
these viruses may spread through the air when people cough or by direct contact another common sign of disease is a cough which lasts ten days to three weeks .
if the cough lasts a month or a year , it may become chronic disease  addition , a fever may be present .
protracted bacterial disease is defined as a chronic productive cough with a positive bronchoalveolar lavage that resolves with antibiotics .
symptoms of chronic disease may include wheezing and shortness of breath , especially upon exertion and low oxygen saturations .
the cough is often worse soon after awakening , and the sputum produced may have a yellow or green color and may be streaked with specks of blood .
wheezing and shortness of breath can be treated by reducing bronchospasm ( reversible narrowing of smaller bronchi due to constriction of the smooth muscle ) with bronchodilators such as inhaled long acting β2-adrenergic receptor agonists ( e.g.
obesity has also been linked to an increased risk for chronic disease .
other symptoms may include : sputum production , sore throat , nasal congestion , headache , muscle aches , fatigue , shortness of breath , .
children with acute disease may have symptoms of : a runny nose , mild fever , cough up sputum or vomit mucus , .
sputum production , sore throat , nasal congestion , headache , muscle aches , fatigue , shortness of breath , .
a runny nose , mild fever , cough up sputum or vomit mucus , .
chronic disease is defined as a cough that occurs every day with sputum production that lasts for at least 3 months , two years in a row .
both acute and chronic disease have similar symptoms like chronic cough and wheezing coughing is the most common symptom of acute disease .
about 50 % of individuals have a productive cough with either clear , yellow , greenish , or occasionally blood tinged sputum .
if a person develops fever , shortness of breath , cyanosis or chest pain , they likely have another problem but not acute disease .
chronic disease is defined as a cough that occurs every day with sputum production that lasts for at least 3 months , 2 years in a row .
risk factors for acute disease are the same as those for getting viral and bacterial infections and two include : being in close contact with people that are coughing , sneezing , and touching items that infected persons recently handled .
but people who do have symptoms often experience : upper abdominal pain , indigestion , bloating , nausea , vomiting , belching , loss of appetite , weight loss , .
intense stress that also affects the immune system , bile flowing into the stomach , or bile reflux , .
get medical help right away if any of the following occur : vomiting blood , rapid heartbeat , difficulty breathing or swallowing , extreme drowsiness , passing out suddenly , confusion , .
chronic gastritis puts you at risk for bleeding in your stomach and small intestine and it can cause severe and nagging pain .
gastritis only directly affects the stomach and may include nausea or vomiting , while gastroenteritis affects both the stomach and the intestines .
gastroenteritis symptoms may include diarrhea in addition to nausea or vomiting .
other symptoms of secondary syphilis may include : headaches , swollen lymph nodes , fatigue , fever , weight loss , hair loss , aching joints , .
some other potential outcomes of tertiary syphilis include : blindness , deafness , mental illness , memory loss , destruction of soft tissue and bone , neurological disorders , such as stroke or meningitis , heart disease , neurosyphilis , which is an infection of the brain or spinal cord , .
this phase can include hair loss ; a sore throat ; white patches in the nose , mouth , and vagina ; fever ; headaches ; and a skin rash .
these wart-like lesions , as well as the skin rash , are highly contagious .
the rash can occur on the palms of the hands , and the infection can be transmitted by casual contact.
other generalized symptoms include fever , sore throat , enlargement of the lymph nodes , and headaches .
if congenital syphilis is not treated , blindness , deafness , perforation of the palate , inflammation of the liver , and involvement of the central nervous system may ensue .
in its early stages , the great pox produced a rash similar to smallpox ( also known as variola ) .
unpleasant side effects of mercury treatment included gum ulcers and loose teeth .
signs and symptoms include a fever , chills , nausea , achy pain and headache .
in most cases , symptoms include fever , chills , loss of appetite , nausea , muscle pains particularly in the back , and headaches .
most cases only cause a mild infection with fever , headache , chills , back pain , fatigue , loss of appetite , muscle pain , nausea , and vomiting .
bleeding in the mouth , the eyes , and the gastrointestinal tract cause vomit containing blood , hence the spanish name for yellow fever , vómito negro ( black vomit ) .
there may also be kidney failure , hiccups , and delirium .
In food-borne botulism , signs and symptoms include nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea followed by constipation and abdominal distention .
The patient may experience double or blurred vision , the eyelids may droop , there will be facial weakness , a dry mouth , dysphagia , or difficulty swallowing , and speech slurring .
In infant botulism , signs and symptoms may include : constipation , poor feeding , bad temper , excessive drooling when feeding , sagging eyelids , flat facial expression , lethargy and listlessness , respiratory difficulties , slow or improper reflexes , weak crying weakly , floppiness and poor muscle tone , no gag reflex , unfocused eyes , weak sucking , .
Fatigue and shortness of breath may linger for many years .
The use of Botox to treat glabellar lines ( wrinkles and frown lines ) was approved in 2002 by the FDA for cosmetic improvements ; the FDA has approved many additional uses ( for example , underarm sweating , and muscle pain disorders ) since 2002 .
Symptoms include cramps , vomiting , breathing problems , difficulty swallowing , double vision , and weakness or paralysis .
The classic symptoms of botulism include double vision , , blurred vision , , drooping eyelids , , slurred speech , , difficulty swallowing , , dry mouth , , muscle weakness ( resulting in a flaccid paralysis ) .
The classic symptoms may also be accompanied by other symptoms and signs such as dilated pupil ( s ) , , dizziness , , fatigue , , constipation , , abdominal discomfort or pain , , nausea , , vomiting , , drooling , , difficulty speaking , , difficulty swallowing , , shortness of breath , , slow or absent reflexes , , urinary retention , , facial weakness , , eye muscle weakness , and , paralysis.
Symptoms of other diseases , such as a stroke , Guillain-Barré syndrome ( another disease of muscle paralysis ) , and myasthenia gravis ( which also causes weakness and eyelid drooping ) can appear similar to those of botulism .
Patients who survive an episode of botulism poisoning may experience fatigue and shortness of breath for years , and long-term therapy may be needed to aid recovery .
Signs and symptoms of foodborne botulism include : Difficulty swallowing or speaking , Dry mouth , Facial weakness on both sides of the face , Blurred or double vision , Drooping eyelids , Trouble breathing , Nausea , vomiting and abdominal cramps , Paralysis , .
Wound botulism signs and symptoms include : Difficulty swallowing or speaking , Facial weakness on both sides of the face , Blurred or double vision , Drooping eyelids , Trouble breathing , Paralysis , .
Signs and symptoms include : Constipation ( often the first sign ) , Floppy movements due to muscle weakness and trouble controlling the head , Weak cry , Irritability , Drooling , Drooping eyelids , Tiredness , Difficulty sucking or feeding , Paralysis , .
Botulinum toxin has been used to reduce facial wrinkles by preventing contraction of muscles beneath the skin and for medical conditions , such as eyelid spasms and severe underarm sweating .
Other complications , which may require rehabilitation , may include : Difficulty speaking , Trouble swallowing , Long-lasting weakness , Fatigue , Shortness of breath , .
Other early symptoms include : Double or blurred vision , Drooping eyelids , Difficulty swallowing , Slurred speech , Shortness of breath , .
Infants with botulism have symptoms that include : Lethargy , Poor muscle tone starting in the head and neck and moving down , Poor feeding , Drooling , Weak cry , .
Problems include shortness of breath and being easily tired out .
Other early symptoms include : Double or blurred vision , Drooping eyelids , Difficulty swallowing , Slurred speech , Shortness of breath , .
Infants with botulism have symptoms that include : Lethargy , Poor muscle tone starting in the head and neck and moving down , Poor feeding , Drooling , Weak cry , .
Problems include shortness of breath and being easily tired out .
Mild symptoms include : a slight stomach-ache , cramping , diarrhea , .
Less commonly , may be : blood or mucus in the feces , intense abdominal pain , fever , nausea , vomiting , .
A person with amoebic dysentery may have : abdominal pain , fever and chills , nausea and vomiting , watery diarrhea , which can contain blood , mucus , or pus , the painful passing of stools , fatigue , intermittent constipation , .
Dysentery , infectious disease characterized by inflammation of the intestine , abdominal pain , and diarrhea with stools that often contain blood and mucus .
Other symptoms may include : abdominal cramps or pain , nausea , vomiting , fever of 100.4°F ( 38°C ) or higher , dehydration , which can become life-threatening if left untreated , .
ymptoms may include abdominal pain , diarrhea , or bloody diarrhea .
Symptoms can range from mild diarrhea to severe dysentery with blood and mucus , coupled with intense abdominal pains .
There are several Shigella vaccine candidates in various stages of development that could reduce the incidence of dysentery in endemic countries , as well as in travelers suffering from traveler 's diarrhea .





