the disease begins with weakness , blurred vision , feeling tired , and trouble speaking .
this may then be followed by weakness and pain of the arms , chest muscles , and legs .
vomiting , swelling of the abdomen , and diarrhea may also occur .
the disease usually affect consciousness, vomiting or cause a fever .
the muscle weakness of botulism characteristically starts in the muscles supplied by the cranial nerves—a group of twelve nerves that control eye movements , the facial muscles and the muscles controlling chewing, pain and swallowing .
this is experienced as a dry mouth and throat ( due to decreased production of saliva ) , postural hypotension ( decreased blood pressure on standing , with resultant lightheadedness and risk of blackouts ) , and eventually constipation ( due to decreased forward movement of intestinal contents ) .
some of the toxins ( b and e ) also precipitate nausea , vomiting , and difficulty with talking .
the weakness then spreads to the arms ( starting in the shoulders and proceeding to the forearms ) and legs ( again from the thighs down to the feet ) .
clinicians frequently think of the symptoms of botulism in terms of a classic triad : bulbar palsy and descending paralysis , lack of fever , and clear senses and mental status ( clear sensorium ) .
the growth of the spores releases botulinum toxin , which is then absorbed into the bloodstream and taken throughout the body , causing paralysis by blocking the release of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction .
typical symptoms of infant botulism include constipation , lethargy , weakness , difficulty feeding and an altered cry , often progressing to a complete descending flaccid paralysis .
although constipation is usually the first symptom of infant botulism , it is commonly pain and fever .
this causes paralysis .
there are eight serological varieties of the bacterium denoted by the letters a to h. the toxin from all of these acts in the same way and produces similar symptoms : the motor nerve endings are prevented from releasing acetylcholine , causing flaccid paralysis and symptoms of blurred vision , ptosis , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation , cramps , and respiratory difficulty .
when the bacteria are under stress , they develop spores , which are inert .
all forms of botulism lead to paralysis that typically starts with the muscles of the face and then spreads towards the limbs .
in severe forms , botulism leads to paralysis of the breathing muscles and causes respiratory failure .
botulinum toxin a , c , and e cleave the snap-25 , ultimately leading to paralysis .
respiratory failure due to paralysis may require mechanical ventilation for 2 to 8 weeks , plus intensive medical and nursing care .
after this time , paralysis generally improves as new neuromuscular connections are formed .
the paralysis caused by botulism can persist for 2 to 8 weeks , during which supportive care and ventilation may be necessary to keep the person alive .
the full clinical spectrum ( mild symptomatology with neurologic findings through life-threatening ventilatory paralysis ) of type b botulism was documented.
in cattle , the symptoms may include drooling , restlessness , uncoordination , urine retention , dysphagia , and sternal recumbency .
in sheep , the symptoms may include drooling , a serous nasal discharge , stiffness , and incoordination .
death generally occurs 24 to 72 hours after initial symptoms and results from respiratory paralysis .
the main symptom is pharynx paralysis .
reported symptoms include anorexia , refusal to drink , vomiting , pupillary dilation , and muscle paralysis .
broiler chickens with the toxicoinfectious form may also have diarrhea with excess urates and fever.
in light of such sparse experimental evidence , we set out to compare the efficacy of dual antibiotic regimens consisting of a third-generation cephalosporin and azithromycin to treatment with each of these agents alone for uncomplicated tf in typhoid-endemic areas , and hypothesized that combination therapy would outperform monotherapy in terms of fct and bacteremia elimination rate .
febrile adult patients attending the emergency room ( er ) or outpatient department ( opd ) , who were clinically suspected of having tf by dhulikhel hospital ’ s physicians and who complied with the study inclusion and exclusion criteria , were given a detailed explanation regarding the study and asked to sign written informed consent forms .
case definition for suspected tf included undifferentiated fever lasting more than 48–72 hours prior to antibiotic treatment .
the use of paracetamol was restricted to pain relief and not fever alleviation , and fct was determined after confirmation that the patient had not taken paracetamol 12 hours prior to vital signs measurement .
only blood culture-confirmed cases were eligible to avoid biases that could arise from the inclusion of patients presenting with symptoms similar to those of tf , and for which an alternative diagnosis was eventually found [ , ] .
its potential toxicities include nephrotoxicity , hyperkalemia , pancytopenia , neutropenia , skin rash , and steven johnson ’ s syndrome many of which overlap with the toxicity of mtx [ ] .
the pertinent physical exam included severe oral mucositis , lip ulceration , and an erythematous rash under her left breast .
leucovorin rescue was given at the dose of 10 mg/m every 6 h for a total of four doses with one dose of filgrastim 480 mcg which resulted in the improvement of the leukocyte count , breast rash , and mouth ulcers within 24 h. the patient was discharged on day 6 of hospitalization and did well post discharge .
the most commonly reported toxicity of mtx due to its interaction with ts is pancytopenia , acute megaloblastic anemia , stomatitis , and nephrotoxicity [ ] .
we present here an overview of the current guidelines for the management of chronic cough .
in this study , the prevalence of chronic cough was higher in oceania ( 18.1 % ) , europe ( 12.7 % ) and america ( 11 % ) than in asia ( 4.4 % ) and africa ( 2.3 % ) .
the management of chronic cough can be challenging for both doctors and patients .
moreover , only 30 % of the subjects felt that “ their doctor had dealt with their cough thoroughly ” and the medication was judged as having limited ( 57 % ) or no effectiveness ( 36 % ) .
in this study , 96 % of the subjects described an alteration of their quality of life ( qol ) , 91 % felt depressed , 94 % reported an impact of chronic cough on their family .
different physical complications of chronic cough have been described , including syncope , cardiac arrhythmias , incontinence or rib fracture .
a recent guideline on tools for assessing outcomes in chronic cough recommends the use of validated and reliable health-related qol questionnaires ( leicester cough questionnaire , cough-specific quality-of-life questionnaire , parent cough-specific quality of life questionnaire ) to assess the impact of cough .
the variability in success in treating chronic cough could be partly related to a lack of fidelity to the main elements of the diagnosis/therapeutic guidelines .
these warning signs include abnormal clinical respiratory and/or general exam , abnormal chest x-ray , smoking history of > 20 pack-years , onset or modification of cough or cough associated with voice abnormalities in a smoker over 45 years .
the evaluation of occupational and environmental factors in the assessment of chronic cough is recommended and a diagnosis algorithm has been recently proposed by the european academy of allergy and clinical immunology ( eaaci ) , including a first step detailed clinical and occupational history .
smoking is obviously a risk factor for chronic cough .
a recent large study performed on 14,669 subjects in copenhagen found a prevalence of chronic cough of 3 % in never smokers , 4 % in former smokers and 8 % in current smokers .
several pollutants have been shown as being risk factors for chronic cough in general population and in asthmatic patients , depending on the level of exposure .
in a cross sectional survey of 200 russian adults , exposure to heavy mining and refining industrial air pollution was also associated with chronic cough , after adjustment for smoking status , age and sex ( or 2.16 , 95 % ci 1.07–4.35 ) .
living close ( m ) to a major road in beijing , china led to a higher risk of chronic cough compared to living > 200 m ( or 2.54 , 95 % ci 1.57–4.10 ) .
indoor pollution can also be associated with chronic cough in fragile populations .
chronic cough is a frequent side effect of ace inhibitor treatment .
a large analysis of almost 27,500 patients with vascular disease identified that female gender , age > 65 years and concomitant use of lipid lowering agents were clinical predictors of ace inhibitor induced dry cough ( or 1.92 , 95 % ci 1.68–2.18 ; or 1.53 , 95 % ci 1.35–1.73 and or 1.37 , 95 % ci 1.18–1.59 , respectively ) .
indeed , viral infection of airways leads to a stimulation of the sensory c-fibers ( afferent nerves ) by inflammatory mediators and products of oxidative stress in the respiratory tract , as well as an increase in their excitability and a change in sensory nerve gene expression .
however , the exact mechanisms involved in postinfection cough are not entirely elucidated.
in a very recent meta-analysis of clinical characteristics of cough associated with b. pertussis infection , paroxysmal cough and absence of fever have a high sensitivity ( 93.2 % and 81.8 % , respectively ) and posttussive vomiting and whooping had a high specificity ( 77.7 % and 79.5 % ) .
feno measurement may not be useful to predict eb in non-asthmatic subjects with chronic cough .
in patients with severe cough or refractory to ics , oral prednisolone ( 10–30 mg/d ) for 3–5 days might be proposed .
gord is typically characterized by symptoms such as daily heartburn and regurgitation , but can frequently be asymptomatic .
if the cough does not improve , ppi treatment should be stopped .
different biomarkers for reflux associated cough have been studied , including pepsin and lipid-laden alveolar macrophages in broncho-alveolar lavage .
in uacs patients , cough can be caused by a variety of upper respiratory disorders , including allergic and non-allergic rhinitis and chronic rhinosinusitis.
chronic cough was initially thought to result from pnd inducing mechanical or chemical stimulation of the afferent nerves innervating the pharynx , larynx or lower airways .
however , the cough appeared to be uncommon in subjects with pnd and may not be associated with pnd .
numerous pulmonary diseases can induce chronic cough and fever.
among them , copd has been described in 11 % of the patients with chronic cough , bronchiolitis in 7.8 % , interstitial lung disease in 2.5 % , lung cancer in 2 % , bronchiectasis in 1 % –1.5 % and mycobacterial infection in 1 % –1.8 % .
chronic cough occurs in 14 % –74 % of copd patients , frequently associated with sputum production .
chronic cough is also associated with an impairment of health-related qol in copd .
chronic cough affects 70 % –85 % of patients with ipf , has a significant impact on qol and is a marker of disease severity and progression .
first , an upper airway inflammation related to snoring and frequent airway obstruction could lead to increased cough sensitivity associated with airway inflammation , as described above .
second , an increased prevalence of gord has been described in osa-related cough and gord has been identified as an independent predictor of cough in patients with osa .
an important feature of osa-related cough is the absence of excessive daytime somnolence and frequently normal epworth sleepiness scores .
the assessment of osa can be performed in refractory chronic cough or in case of clinical signs of osa .
the involvement of cardiac arrythmias in chronic cough has been shown in a study assessing 120 patients with premature ventricular complexes ( pvcs ) .
in this study , 5 % of the subjects ( 6 patients ) presented pvc-related chronic cough , confirmed by multichannel recording of sleep-disordered breathing .
in these patients , cough was characterized by a sudden need to cough preceded by a tickling feeling in the throat .
the cough could not be stopped voluntarily and looked like a rapid expelling of air not preceded by inspiration .
cough was improved in 5 patients after treatment with oral antiarrhythmic drugs .
when radiofrequency ablation procedure was performed ( 4 patients ) , it resulted in complete resolution of both arrhythmia and cough .
a study performed in korea in people aged > 65 years found a prevalence of 4.6 % of chronic cough .
chronic cough was associated with impairment of qol , smoking habits , asthma , allergic rhinitis , uncontrolled diabetes ( hba1c ≥8 % ) and constipation .
cough is a frequent symptom in athletes , associated with exposure to the sport training environment , especially in winter athletes , and predominantly following intense exercise.
the management of chronic cough in immunocompromised adults should take into account the type and severity of immune defect , geographic location and social determinants .
chs can apply to most patients with chronic cough , different phenotypes being defined by the underlying condition .
three main different phenotypes have been described : i ) predominant phenotype of rhinal symptoms ( such as uacs ) ; ii ) th2-cell dominant phenotype ( cough variant asthma or naeb ) and iii ) predominant phenotype characterized by acid reflux and heartburn ( gastroesophageal reflux cough ) .
refractory chronic cough is considered to be a phenotype of the chs .
related symptoms are laryngeal paresthesia with cough , fever, dyspnea , dysphonia , or laryngeal spasm .
in this study , the authors analyzed the patterns of cough response to inhaled irritants in different respiratory pathologies including copd , asthma and refractory chronic cough .
refractory chronic cough occurs more frequently in women , with an intermittent dry cough throughout the day triggered by usually non-tussive stimuli , including talking , or low dose of tussive stimuli , associated with laryngeal paresthesia and frequent dysphonia .
the diagnosis of refractory chronic cough is an exclusion diagnosis and requires the investigation of other causes as recommended by current guidelines .
a systematic examination of laryngeal structure and function may be indicated in patients with refractory chronic cough associated with laryngeal symptoms .
ryan et al also noted an improvement in both patients with refractory chronic cough alone , fever and associated with paradoxical vocal fold movement .
recent guidelines suggest a therapeutic trial of multimodality speech pathology therapy in patients with unexplained chronic cough ( grade 2c recommendation ) .
an assessment of airway eosinophilia ( induced sputum , bronchoalveolar lavage ) or exhaled no should be part of the assessment of refractory chronic cough .
the recent guidelines recommend ics should not to be prescribed in adult patients with unexplained chronic cough and negative tests for bronchial hyperresponsiveness and eosinophilia ( sputum eosinophils , exhaled nitric oxide ) ( grade 2b recommendation ) .
centrally acting neuromodulators act on the increased neural sensitization involved in the pathophysiology of refractory chronic cough .
a pilot study performed on 16 subjects with refractory chronic cough showed an improvement of cough severity after treatment by tramadol .
recent guidelines indicate that in adult patients with unexplained chronic cough , it is suggested to perform a therapeutic trial of gabapentin as long as the potential side effects and the risk-benefit profile are discussed with patients before use of the medication , and there is a reassessment of the risk-benefit profile at 6 months before continuing the drug ( grade 2c recommendation ) .
no improvement was found in subjects with idiopathic chronic cough .
gsk2339345 is an inhibitor of voltage-gated sodium channels ( vgsc ) that are involved in afferent sensory nerve fibers responsible for evoking cough .
after an uneventful recovery , the patient suddenly developed cardiogenic shock on postoperative day 14 .
there was active bleeding of the epicardium from a number of pointed lesions , just opposite the tackers which had penetrated the pericardium .
venous bleeding from the myocardium of the right ventricle , probably caused by a fundophrenicopexy suture , was stopped by resuturing , the pericardium was left open , and the left hemithorax was drained .
the patient developed cardiac tamponade on the second day due to tack-induced bleeding of an epicardial artery of the inferior surface of the heart , which required emergency pericardial drainage .
forty-eight hours after surgery , the patient developed hypotension and sweating .
on postoperative day 5 , the patient developed acute respiratory distress syndrome with hypotension and oliguria .
on postoperative day 2 , the patient developed hypotension , tachycardia , and irregular pulse .
appendicitis , celiac disease , chronic constipation , diarrhea , diverticulosis , gallstones , hemorrhoids , peptic ulcer disease , more related topics , .
treatment for gastritis usually involves : taking antacids and other drugs ( such as proton pump inhibitors or h-2 blockers ) to reduce stomach acid , avoiding hot and spicy foods , for gastritis caused by h. pylori infection , your doctor will prescribe a regimen of several antibiotics plus an acid blocking drug ( used for heartburn ) , if the gastritis is caused by pernicious anemia , b12 vitamin shots will be given.
the inflammation of gastritis is most often the result of infection with the same bacterium that causes most stomach ulcers .
in some cases , gastritis can lead to ulcers and an increased risk of stomach cancer .
severe stress due to major surgery , injury , burns or severe infections can cause acute gastritis.
left untreated , gastritis may lead to stomach ulcers and stomach bleeding .
ysentery is an inflammatory disease of the intestine , especially of the colon , which always results in severe diarrhea and abdominal pains .
other symptoms may include fever and a feeling of incomplete defecation .
the most common form of dysentery is bacillary dysentery , which is typically a mild sickness , causing symptoms normally consisting of mild gut pains and frequent passage of stool or diarrhea .
in some caustic occasions severe abdominal cramps , fever , shock and delirium can all be symptoms .
more often , individuals will complain of intense abdominal pains and explosive diarrhea with blood and/or mucus , accompanied by rectal pain and low-grade fever .
rapid weight loss and generalized muscle aches sometimes also accompany dysentery , while nausea and vomiting are often rare .
anemia may also arise due to the blood loss through diarrhea .
extensive cellular damage or death is required to cause bleeding .
bacterial infections that cause bloody diarrhea are typically classified as being either invasive or toxogenic .
this is also in contrast to toxins that cause watery diarrhea , which usually do not cause cellular damage , but rather they take over cellular machinery for a portion of life of the cell .
the u. s. centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) limits its definition to diarrhea with visible blood .
the amoebae can burrow into the walls of the intestines and cause small abscesses and ulcers to form .
some strains of escherichia coli cause bloody diarrhea .
the mouth , skin , and lips may appear dry due to dehydration .
lower abdominal tenderness may also be present .
if this treatment can not be adequately maintained due to vomiting or the profuseness of diarrhea , hospital admission may be required for intravenous fluid replacement .
if necessary , a doctor may have to reserve antibiotics for those at highest risk for death , including young children , people over 50 , and anyone suffering from dehydration or malnutrition .
extreme dehydration can delay recovery and significantly raises the risk for serious complications .
intestinal infectious diseases , diarrhea , waterborne diseases , conditions diagnosed by stool test , .
ultimately , a condition called viral hemorrhagic fever can develop , with internal bleeding ( hemorrhaging ) , high fever , and damage to the liver , kidneys , and circulatory system .
because of the risk of internal bleeding , avoid aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs if you suspect you have yellow fever .
but yellow fever can become more serious , causing heart , liver and kidney problems along with bleeding ( hemorrhaging ) .
complications during the toxic phase of a yellow fever infection include kidney and liver failure , jaundice , delirium , and coma .
during this time a person may experience fatigue and jaundice and highly effective vaccine exists to prevent yellow fever .
the damage done to the liver from the virus results in severe jaundice which yellows the skin .
in the jungle , yellow fever is transmitted from monkeys to people by mosquitoes that breed in tree-holes in the rainforests .
the diagnosis of yellow fever is made by observation or , if need be , by culturing the virus from a blood sample .
many people recover from yellow fever at this stage , but some people will develop a more serious version of this condition .
the centers for disease control ( cdc ) suggests that anyone who is 9 months through 59 years old and traveling to or living in an area where the risk of yellow fever is present should be vaccinated .
diarrhea is uncommon and vomiting is not usually severe and some people develop a skin rash with rose colored spots .
in the second week , the person is often too tired to get up , with high fever in plateau around 40 °c ( 104 °f ) and bradycardia ( sphygmothermic dissociation or faget sign ) , classically with a dicrotic pulse wave .
diarrhea can occur in this stage : six to eight stools in a day , green , comparable to pea soup , with a characteristic smell .
however , constipation is also frequent in the third week of typhoid fever , a number of complications can occur : intestinal haemorrhage due to bleeding in congested peyer 's patches ; this can be very serious , but is usually not fatal.
metastatic abscesses , cholecystitis , endocarditis , and osteitis , the fever is still very high and oscillates very little over 24 hours .
one-third of affected individuals develop a macular rash on the trunk.
platelet count goes down slowly and risk of bleeding rises by the end of third week , the fever starts subsiding , .
intestinal haemorrhage due to bleeding in congested peyer 's patches ; this can be very serious , but is usually not fatal.
one-third of affected individuals develop a macular rash on the trunk platelet count goes down slowly and risk of bleeding rises.
the gram-negative bacterium that causes typhoid fever is salmonella typhi , also known as salmonella enterica serotype typhi .
typhidot is a medical test consisting of a dot elisa kit that detects igm and igg antibodies against the outer membrane protein ( omp ) of the salmonella typhi .
the test is based on the presence of specific igm and igg antibodies to a specific 50kd omp antigen , which is impregnated on nitrocellulose strips .
developing nations , such as those found in parts of asia and africa , have the highest rates of typhoid fever .
people develop symptoms , including fever , at this point .
death occurred from overwhelming infection , pneumonia , intestinal bleeding , or intestinal perforation .
symptoms include a high fever and gastrointestinal problems.
After the oral vaccine , there may be gastrointestinal problems , nausea , and headache .
Along with high fever , it can cause abdominal pains headache , and loss of appetite .
Typhoid fever has an insidious onset , with fever , headache and muscle pain .
the two major symptoms of typhoid are fever and rash .
the rash , which does not affect every patient , consists of rose-colored spots , particularly on the neck and abdomen .
rarely , symptoms might include confusion , diarrhea , and vomiting , but this is not normally severe .
preliminary trials in the indian army produced excellent results , and typhoid vaccination was adopted for the use of british troops serving in the south african… after an average 10–14-day incubation period , the early symptoms of typhoid appear : headache , malaise , generalized aching , fever , and restlessness that may interfere with sleep .
at that point , some patients develop a rash of small rose-coloured spots on the trunk , which lasts four or five days and then fades away .
in favourable cases , about the beginning of the fourth week , the fever begins to decline , the symptoms begin to abate , and the temperature gradually returns to normal .
most people with typhoid fever feel better within a few days of starting antibiotic treatment , although a small number of them may die of complications .
see a doctor immediately if you suspect you have typhoid fever .
the most serious complications of typhoid fever — intestinal bleeding or holes ( perforations ) in the intestine — may develop in the third week of illness .
psychiatric problems , such as delirium , hallucinations and paranoid psychosis , .
a vaccine is recommended if you 're traveling to areas where the risk of getting typhoid fever is high .
diarrhea is uncommon , and vomiting is not usually severe confusion , delirium , intestinal perforation , and death may occur in severe cases .
if traveling to endemic areas , you should consult with your health care professional and discuss if you should receive vaccination for typhoid fever .
people who are traveling to areas with high rates of typhoid fever should receive the vaccine prior to leaving the u.s. travelers should consult the cdc web site for specific recommendations depending on the countries they plan to visit ( http : //wwwn.cdc.gov/travel/ ) .
patients develop symptoms , including fever , when the organism reenters the bloodstream .
chest congestion develops in many patients , and abdominal pain and discomfort are common the fever becomes constant .
serious complications are rare , but can include intestinal bleeding or perforations in the intestine .
choleracholera is a serious bacterial disease that can cause severe diarrhea and dehydration .
cholera is a serious bacterial disease that can cause severe diarrhea and dehydration .
Symptoms include nausea , vomiting , and severe abdominal pain .
this rash eventually spreads over most of the body , sparing the face , palms , and soles .
signs of meningoencephalitis begin with the rash and continue into the second or third weeks .
other signs of meningoencephalitis include sensitivity to light ( photophobia ) , altered mental status ( delirium ) , or coma .
these accounts include descriptions of fever ; red spots over arms , back , and chest ; attention deficit , progressing to delirium ; as well as gangrenous sores and the associated smell of rotting flesh .
acute disease , also called a chest cold , usually improves within a week to 10 days without lasting effects , although the cough may linger for weeks .
while these symptoms usually improve in about a week , you may have a nagging cough that lingers for several weeks .
even a cold can make it more likely since your body ’ s already busy fighting off those germs.
your doctor usually can tell whether you have disease based on a physical exam and your symptoms.she ’ ll ask questions about your cough , such as how long you ’ ve had it and what kind of mucus comes up with it .
if you have asthma , allergies , or you ’ re wheezing , she might suggest an inhaler eight to 12 glasses a day helps thin out your mucus and makes it easier to cough it up.
you can use acetaminophen ( tylenol ) to help with both pain and fever you might take an expectorant ( like guaifenosin ) during the day to loosen your mucous so it 's easier to cough out .
the cough may persist for several weeks afterwards , with the total duration of symptoms usually around three weeks .
oxygen supplementation can cause decreased respiratory drive , resulting in increased blood levels of carbon dioxide ( hypercapnia ) and subsequent respiratory acidosis .
acute disease is often referred to as a chest cold , caused by a variety of viruses and bacteria .
the coughing begins early in the disease and usually lasts about 10 to 20 days as it gradually subsides .
in addition , the common cold may mimic an acute disease flair-up .
however , the pain is temporary and usually lasts for short bursts at a time .
acute gastritis comes on suddenly , and can be caused by injury , bacteria , viruses , stress , or ingesting irritants such as alcohol , nsaids , steroids , or spicy food .
chronic gastritis might cause more of a consistent dull ache than the more intense pain of acute gastritis .
the disease can be transmitted from any contact with one of the ulcers , which are teeming with spirochetes .
vagina , symptom checker , muscle pain , .
in about 15 % of people within a day of improving , the fever comes back , abdominal pain occurs , and liver damage begins causing yellow skin .
in the 18th and 19th centuries , yellow fever was seen as one of the most dangerous infectious diseases .
in 15 % of cases , however , people enter a second , toxic phase of the disease with recurring fever , this time accompanied by jaundice due to liver damage , as well as abdominal pain .
all types of botulism eventually lead to paralysis , so any case of botulism is treated as a medical emergency .
in food-borne botulism , signs and symptoms include nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea followed by constipation and abdominal distention .
there may be weakness and difficulty breathing .
the patient may experience double or blurred vision , the eyelids may droop , there will be facial weakness , a dry mouth , dysphagia , or difficulty swallowing , and speech slurring .
next , paralysis will set in .
in infant botulism , signs and symptoms may include : constipation , poor feeding , bad temper , excessive drooling when feeding , sagging eyelids , flat facial expression , lethargy and listlessness , respiratory difficulties , slow or improper reflexes , weak crying weakly , floppiness and poor muscle tone , no gag reflex , unfocused eyes , weak sucking , .
over time , the paralysis may improve .
fatigue and shortness of breath may linger for many years .
the other types mainly cause disease in animals and birds , which also develop flaccid paralysis .
the use of botox to treat glabellar lines ( wrinkles and frown lines ) was approved in 2002 by the fda for cosmetic improvements ; the fda has approved many additional uses ( for example , underarm sweating , and muscle pain disorders ) since 2002 .
all of the patients who got botulism ate a nacho cheese sauce served at a gas station near sacramento , calif. one patient had to spend at least three weeks in the intensive care unit with paralysis .
symptoms include cramps , vomiting , breathing problems , difficulty swallowing , double vision , and weakness or paralysis .
the classic symptoms of botulism include double vision , , blurred vision , , drooping eyelids , , slurred speech , , difficulty swallowing , , dry mouth , , muscle weakness ( resulting in a flaccid paralysis ) .
the classic symptoms may also be accompanied by other symptoms and signs such as dilated pupil ( s ) , , dizziness , , fatigue , , constipation , , abdominal discomfort or pain , , nausea , , vomiting , , drooling , , difficulty speaking , , difficulty swallowing , , shortness of breath , , slow or absent reflexes , , urinary retention , , facial weakness , , eye muscle weakness , and , paralysis.
constipation may occur .
in infants , constipation is often the first symptom to occur .
symptoms of other diseases , such as a stroke , guillain-barré syndrome ( another disease of muscle paralysis ) , and myasthenia gravis ( which also causes weakness and eyelid drooping ) can appear similar to those of botulism .
the respiratory failure and paralysis that occur with severe botulism may require a patient to be on a breathing machine ( mechanical ventilator ) for weeks and may require intensive medical and nursing care ( nasogastric suction , iv augmented nutrition , and foley catheter , for example ) .
after several weeks , the paralysis slowly improves as axons in the nerves are regenerated .
patients who survive an episode of botulism poisoning may experience fatigue and shortness of breath for years , and long-term therapy may be needed to aid recovery .
signs and symptoms of foodborne botulism include : difficulty swallowing or speaking , dry mouth , facial weakness on both sides of the face , blurred or double vision , drooping eyelids , trouble breathing , nausea , vomiting and abdominal cramps , paralysis , .
wound botulism signs and symptoms include : difficulty swallowing or speaking , facial weakness on both sides of the face , blurred or double vision , drooping eyelids , trouble breathing , paralysis , .
signs and symptoms include : constipation ( often the first sign ) , floppy movements due to muscle weakness and trouble controlling the head , weak cry , irritability , drooling , drooping eyelids , tiredness , difficulty sucking or feeding , paralysis , .
for example , botulism does n't generally increase blood pressure or heart rate , or cause fever or confusion .
however , sometimes , wound botulism may cause fever .
when you eat food containing the toxin , it disrupts nerve function , causing paralysis .
botulinum toxin has been used to reduce facial wrinkles by preventing contraction of muscles beneath the skin and for medical conditions , such as eyelid spasms and severe underarm sweating .
other complications , which may require rehabilitation , may include : difficulty speaking , trouble swallowing , long-lasting weakness , fatigue , shortness of breath , .
infant botulism , abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting , .
the most defining symptom is weakness that starts on both sides of your face , goes down to your neck , and then to the rest of your body .
other early symptoms include : double or blurred vision , drooping eyelids , difficulty swallowing , slurred speech , shortness of breath , .
other symptoms that can follow include vomiting , belly pain , and diarrhea .
later , you may have a very hard time urinating and have severe constipation .
if you don ’ t get treatment , your symptoms could progress to paralysis of your arms and legs and the muscles used for breathing .
infants with botulism have symptoms that include : lethargy , poor muscle tone starting in the head and neck and moving down , poor feeding , drooling , weak cry , .
you may have long-term breathing problems if your case is severe .
problems include shortness of breath and being easily tired out .
your doctor will likely start with a physical exam , looking for signs of botulism such as muscle weakness , a weak voice , or drooping eyelids .
botulism symptoms are similar to those for stroke and guillain-barre syndrome , in which your immune system attacks your nerves , causing possible paralysis .
the most defining symptom is weakness that starts on both sides of your face , goes down to your neck , and then to the rest of your body .
other early symptoms include : double or blurred vision , drooping eyelids , difficulty swallowing , slurred speech , shortness of breath , .
other symptoms that can follow include vomiting , belly pain , and diarrhea .
later , you may have a very hard time urinating and have severe constipation .
if you don ’ t get treatment , your symptoms could progress to paralysis of your arms and legs and the muscles used for breathing .
infants with botulism have symptoms that include : lethargy , poor muscle tone starting in the head and neck and moving down , poor feeding , drooling , weak cry , .
you may have long-term breathing problems if your case is severe .
problems include shortness of breath and being easily tired out .
your doctor will likely start with a physical exam , looking for signs of botulism such as muscle weakness , a weak voice , or drooping eyelids .
botulism symptoms are similar to those for stroke and guillain-barre syndrome , in which your immune system attacks your nerves , causing possible paralysis .
the first symptoms of botulism , nausea and vomiting , usually appear six hours or less after the contaminated food is eaten , depending upon the amount of toxin ingested .
the poisoned person becomes tired and may complain of headache, weakness and dizziness .
the mucous membranes of the throat may become dry ; the affected person may feel a constriction in the throat , soon associated with difficulty in swallowing and speaking ; and a general muscle weakness soon occurs .
the respiratory muscles become involved ; about half the deaths from botulism result from paralysis of the respiratory muscles .
infant botulism , which may result from feeding infants honey contaminated with the clostridial spores , exhibits symptoms such as constipation , poor feeding , and a weak cry ; children under the age of one year should not be given honey because of this risk .
symptoms include stomach cramps and diarrhea , many people have mild symptoms like fever and vomiting , but dysentery can be fatal without adequate hydration.
dysentery is an infectious disease associated with with severe diarrhea and fatigue .
however , any patient with diarrhea or vomiting should drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration and weight loss .
mild symptoms include : a slight stomach-ache , cramping , diarrhea , .
there is normally a mild stomach ache and diarrhea , but no blood or mucus in the feces .
The virus circulates in the blood of an infected person for 2-7 days, at approximately the same time that the person develops a fever.
diarrhea may be frequent to start with vomiting and fever.
less commonly , may be : blood or mucus in the feces , intense abdominal pain , fever , nausea , vomiting , .
a person with amoebic dysentery may have : abdominal pain , fever and chills , nausea and vomiting , watery diarrhea , which can contain blood , mucus , or pus , the painful passing of stools , fatigue , intermittent constipation , .
the amoebae group together to form a cyst , and these cysts emerge from the body in human feces .
dehydration : frequent diarrhea and vomiting can quickly lead to dehydration .
postinfectious arthritis : joint pain may occur following the infection .
hemolytic uremic syndrome : shigella dysenteriae can cause the red blood cells to block the entrance to the kidneys , leading to anemia , low platelet count , and kidney failure .
dysentery , infectious disease characterized by inflammation of the intestine , abdominal pain , and diarrhea with stools that often contain blood and mucus .
symptomatically , the disease ranges from a mild attack to a severe course that commences suddenly and ends in death caused by dehydration and poisoning by bacterial toxins .
vomiting may also occur , and dehydration soon becomes obvious owing to the copious loss of bodily fluids .
the cyst form produces a chronic illness marked by intermittent episodes of diarrhea and abdominal pain .
pain is a warning mechanism that protects an organism by influencing it to withdraw from harmful stimuli ; it is primarily associated with injury or the threat of injury.… , diarrhea diarrhea , abnormally swift passage of waste material through the large intestine , with consequent discharge of loose feces from the anus .
diarrhea may be accompanied by cramping .
other symptoms may include : abdominal cramps or pain , nausea , vomiting , fever of 100.4°f ( 38°c ) or higher , dehydration , which can become life-threatening if left untreated , .
if left untreated , dysentery can lead to severe dehydration and become life-threatening .
over-the-counter medication , such as bismuth subsalicylate ( pepto-bismol ) , can help relieve cramps and diarrhea .
in severe cases , your doctor may recommend an intravenous ( iv ) drip to replace fluids and prevent dehydration and diarrhea .
these people can develop joint pain , eye irritation , and painful urination .
people who have shigellosis and work with children , in food preparation , or in healthcare should stay home until the diarrhea has stopped .
people affected may develop anemia due to loss of blood and bleeding .
invasion of the intestinal lining results in bloody diarrhea and fatigue .
liver abscesses can occur without previous diarrhea may pain .
symptoms can range from mild diarrhea to severe dysentery with blood and mucus , coupled with intense abdominal pains .
in fact , most traveler 's diarrhea is bacterial or viral in origin .
asymptomatic human infections are usually diagnosed by finding cysts shed in the stool .
recovery procedures are not very accurate ; cysts are easily lost or damaged beyond recognition , which leads to many falsely negative results in recovery tests .
bacillary dysentery should not be confused with diarrhea caused by other bacterial infections .
if this treatment can not be adequately maintained due to vomiting or the profuseness of diarrhea , hospital admission may be required for intravenous fluid replacement .
the patient will be advised to replace fluids lost through diarrhea and vomiting .
if necessary , a doctor may have to reserve antibiotics for those at highest risk for death , including young children , people over 50 , and anyone suffering from dehydration or malnutrition .
there are several shigella vaccine candidates in various stages of development that could reduce the incidence of dysentery in endemic countries , as well as in travelers suffering from traveler 's diarrhea .
When signs and symptoms do occur , they may include : Fatigue , Beeding easily , Bruising easily , Itchy skin , Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes ( jaundice ) .
Fluid accumulation in your abdomen ( ascites ) , Loss of appetite , Nausea , Swelling in your legs , Weight loss , Confusion , drowsiness and slurred speech ( hepatic encephalopathy ).
Spiderlike blood vessels on your skin , Redness in the palms of the hands , Testicular atrophy in men , Breast enlargement in men , .
Portal hypertension can cause fluid to accumulate in the legs ( edema ) and in the abdomen ( ascites ) .
Edema and ascites also may result from the inability of the liver to make enough of certain blood proteins , such as albumin.
Ascites can lead to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , a serious infection and fever.
Cirrhosis may make it more difficult for your body to process nutrients , leading to weakness and weight loss.
These toxins can then build up in the brain and cause mental confusion and difficulty concentrating .
Jaundice occurs when the diseased liver does n't remove enough bilirubin , a blood waste product , from your blood .
Jaundice causes yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes and darkening of urine.
Cirrhosis care at Mayo Clinic Symptom Checker , Unexplained weight loss , Nausea and vomiting , Fatigue , Leg swelling , .
Weakness and loss of weight may be early sympto
Hypogonadism , a decrease in malms .e sex hormones may manifest as impotence , infertility , loss of sexual drive , and testicular atrophy , and can result from primary gonadal injury or suppression of hypothalamic/pituitary function .
Ascites , accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity ( space in the abdomen ) , gives rise to flank dullness .
Effects of portal hypertension include : Splenomegaly ( increase in size of the spleen ) is found in 35 % to 50 % of patients.
Patients may also have concurrent alcoholic hepatitis with fever , hepatomegaly , jaundice , and anorexia .
This type of hepatitis appears to be associated with obesity ( 40 % of NASH patients ) diabetes , protein malnutrition , coronary artery disease , and treatment with steroid medications .
An enlarged spleen ( splenomegaly ) , which normally measures less than 11–12 cm in adults , is suggestive of cirrhosis with portal hypertension , in the right clinical context .
Treatment for hepatitis-related cirrhosis involves medications used to treat the different types of hepatitis , such as interferon for viral hepatitis and corticosteroids for autoimmune hepatitis .
In patients with previously stable cirrhosis , decompensation may occur due to various causes , such as constipation , infection ( of any source ) , increased alcohol intake , medication , bleeding from esophageal varices or dehydration .
Palliative care is specialized medical care that focuses on providing patients with relief from the symptoms , pain , and stress of a serious illness , such as cirrhosis .
Especially in the later stages , people with cirrhosis experience significant symptoms such as abdominal swelling , itching , leg edema , and chronic abdominal pain which would be amenable for treatment through palliative care .
Signs and symptoms of infection may be nonspecific and are more difficult to recognize ( for example , worsening encephalopathy but no fever ) .
Cirrhosis can cause weakness , loss of appetite , easy bruising , yellowing of the skin ( jaundice ) , itching , and fatigue.
, Complications of cirrhosis include : Swelling of the abdomen ( ascites ) and/or in the hip , thigh , leg , ankle , and foot , Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , Bleeding from varices , Hepatic encephalopathy , Hepatorenal syndrome , Hepatopulmonary syndrome , Hypersplenism , Liver cancer , .
Swelling of the abdomen ( ascites ) and/or in the hip , thigh , leg , ankle , and foot ,  Hepatorenal syndrome , Hepatopulmonary syndrome , Hypersplenism , Liver cancer , .
Common symptoms and signs of cirrhosis include : Yellowing of the skin ( jaundice ) due to the accumulation of bilirubin in the  Loss of appetite , Itching , Easy bruising from decreased production of blood clotting factors by the diseased liver.
As cirrhosis worsens and more salt and water are retained , fluid also may accumulate in the abdominal cavity between the abdominal wall and the abdominal organs ( called ascites ) causing swelling of the abdomen , abdominal discomfort , and increased weight .
Fluid in the abdominal cavity ( ascites ) is the perfect place for bacteria to grow .
Infection within the abdomen and the ascites , called spontaneous bacterial peritonitis or SBP , is likely to occur .
Some patients with SBP have no symptoms , while others have fever , chills , abdominal pain and tenderness , diarrhea , and worsening ascites .
Symptoms of bleeding from varices include vomiting blood ( it may appear as red blood mixed with clots or coffee grounds ) , passing stool that is black and tarry due to changes in the blood as it passes through the intestine ( melena ).
orthostatic dizziness or fainting ( caused by a drop in blood pressure especially when standing up from a lying position ) .
Bleeding may rarely occur from varices that form elsewhere in the intestines , for example , the colon .
Patients hospitalized because of actively bleeding esophageal varices have a high risk of developing spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , though the reasons for this are not yet understood .
The blood backs-up , accumulating in the spleen , and the spleen swells in size , a condition referred to as splenomegaly .
Sometimes , the spleen is so enlarged it causes abdominal pain .
Anemia can cause weakness , leucopenia can lead to infections , and thrombocytopenia can impair the clotting of blood and result in prolonged bleeding Cirrhosis due to any cause increases the risk of primary liver cancer ( hepatocellular carcinoma ) .
The most common symptoms and signs of primary liver cancer are abdominal pain and swelling , an enlarged liver , weight loss , and fever .
As a result , the patient experiences shortness of breath , particularly with exertion .
Obesity is the main cause of insulin resistance , metabolic syndrome , and type 2 diabetes .
Cirrhosis , tremor , psychiatric disturbances and other neurological difficulties occur if the condition is not treated early .
The doctor may uncover a history of excessive and prolonged intake of alcohol , a history of intravenous drug abuse , or a history of hepatitis .
Jaundice ( yellowing of the skin and of the whites of the eyes due to elevated bilirubin in the blood ) is common among patients with cirrhosis , but jaundice can occur in patients with liver diseases without cirrhosis and other conditions such as hemolysis ( excessive break down of red blood cells ) .
Swelling of the abdomen ( ascites ) and/or the lower extremities ( edema ) due to retention of fluid is common among patients with cirrhosis , although other diseases can cause them commonly , for example , congestive heart failure.
Retaining salt and water can lead to swelling of the ankles and legs ( edema ) or abdomen ( ascites ) in patients with cirrhosis .
Doctors often advise patients with cirrhosis to restrict dietary salt ( sodium ) and fluid to decrease edema and ascites .
The blood backs-up , accumulating in the spleen , and the spleen swells in size , a condition referred to as splenomegaly .
Sometimes , the spleen is so enlarged it causes abdominal pain .
Hypersplenism is the term used to describe this condition , and it is associated with a low red blood cell count ( anemia ) , low white blood cell count ( leukopenia ) , and/or a low platelet count ( thrombocytopenia ) .
Anemia can cause weakness, pain , infections , and thrombocytopenia can impair the clotting of blood and result in prolonged bleeding .
If large varices develop in the esophagus or upper stomach , patients with cirrhosis are at risk for serious bleeding due to rupture of these varices .
Propranolol ( Inderal ) , a beta-blocker , is effective in lowering pressure in the portal vein and is used to prevent initial bleeding and rebleeding from varices in patients with cirrhosis .
This tube shunts blood around the liver and by so doing lowers the pressure in the portal vein and varices and prevents bleeding from the varices .
TIPS can be used in patients with cirrhosis to prevent variceal bleeding while the patients are waiting for liver transplantation .
Another major problem with TIPS is the development of narrowing and blocking ( occlusion ) of the stent , causing recurrence of portal hypertension and variceal bleeding and ascites .
Patients with cirrhosis who are hospitalized for bleeding varices have a high risk of developing spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and should be started on antibiotics early during the hospitalization to treat presumed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
 Patients with recurring episodes of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , Patients with low protein levels in the ascitic fluid ( ascitic fluid with low levels of protein is more likely to become infected ) .
It can lead to problems like these : You bleed from large blood vessels in your esophagus ( bleeding varices ) and abnormal pain .
vomiting blood , problems with walking and mobility , .
Learn the effects of your drinking habits on your body.READ MOREREAD MORE , What Causes Ascites ?
When fluid builds up inside the abdomen , it is known as ascites .
Some of the signs and symptoms of type 1 and type 2 diabetes are : Increased thirst , Frequent urination.
Extreme hunger , Unexplained weight loss , Presence of ketones in the urine ( ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there 's not enough available insulin ).
Insulin lowers the amount of sugar in your bloodstream.
High blood pressure .
Diabetes dramatically increases the risk of various cardiovascular problems , including coronary artery disease with chest pain ( angina ) , heart attack , stroke and narrowing of arteries ( atherosclerosis ) .
This can cause tingling , numbness , burning or pain that usually begins at the tips of the toes or fingers and gradually spreads upward .
Babies of mothers who have gestational diabetes have a higher risk of developing obesity and type 2 diabetes later in life.
There are three main types of diabetes mellitus : Type 1 DM results from the pancreas 's failure to produce enough insulin .
Prevention and treatment involve maintaining a healthy diet , regular physical exercise , a normal body weight , and avoiding use of tobacco .
The classic symptoms of untreated diabetes are weight loss , polyuria ( increased urination ) , polydipsia ( increased thirst ) , and polyphagia ( increased hunger ) .
In addition to the known ones above , they include blurry vision , headache , fatigue , slow healing of cuts , and itchy skin .
Effects can range from feelings of unease , trembling , and increased appetite in mild cases to more serious issues such as confusion , changes in behavior such as aggressiveness , seizures , unconsciousness , and ( rarely ) permanent brain damage or death in severe cases .
The symptoms can include numbness , tingling , pain , and altered pain sensation , which can lead to damage to the skin .
Additionally , proximal diabetic neuropathy causes painful muscle atrophy and weakness .
Being diabetic , especially when on insulin , increases the risk of falls in older people .
Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreatic islets , leading to insulin deficiency .
The majority of type 1 diabetes is of the immune-mediated nature , in which a T cell-mediated autoimmune attack leads to the loss of beta cells and thus insulin .
Sensitivity and responsiveness to insulin are usually normal , especially in the early stages .
A number of lifestyle factors are known to be important to the development of type 2 DM , including obesity ( defined by a body mass index of greater than 30 ) , lack of physical activity , poor diet , stress , and urbanization .
Management may include dietary changes , blood glucose monitoring , and in some cases , insulin may be required .
Risks to the baby include macrosomia ( high birth weight ) , congenital heart and central nervous system abnormalities , and skeletal muscle malformations .
Insulin plays a critical role in balancing glucose levels in the body .
Insulin can inhibit the breakdown of glycogen or the process of gluconeogenesis , it can stimulate the transport of glucose into fat and muscle cells , and it can stimulate the storage of glucose in the form of glycogen .
Insulin is released into the blood by beta cells ( β-cells ) , found in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas , in response to rising levels of blood glucose , typically after eating .
Insulin is used by about two-thirds of the body 's cells to absorb glucose from the blood for use as fuel , for conversion to other needed molecules , or for storage .
This process is mainly controlled by the hormone glucagon , which acts in the opposite manner to insulin .
This increases the osmotic pressure of the urine and inhibits reabsorption of water by the kidney , resulting in increased urine production ( polyuria ) and increased fluid loss .
These include smoking , elevated cholesterol levels , obesity , high blood pressure , and lack of regular exercise .
People with diabetes can benefit from education about the disease and treatment , good nutrition to achieve a normal body weight , and exercise , with the goal of keeping both short-term and long-term blood glucose levels within acceptable bounds .
People with diabetes who have neuropathic symptoms such as numbness or tingling in feet or hands are twice as likely to be unemployed as those without the symptoms .
The symptoms may relate to fluid loss and polyuria , but the course may also be insidious .
The principles of treatment ( weight loss , oral antidiabetics , subcutaneous insulin ) and management of emergencies.
An advantage to inhaled insulin is that it may be more convenient and easy to use .
Effects can range from feelings of cold , fever , and increased appetite in mild cases to more serious issues such as confusion .
Some people may have mild flu-like symptoms, including: fever, headache, lack of energy.
Most people with HIV develop skin problems. Rash is the most common symptom of HIV.
In a person with HIV, the skin can become extremely sensitive to irritants and sunlight.
A rash may appear as a flat red patch with small bumps, and skin may become flaky.
Sores, or lesions, may form on the skin of the mouth, genitals, and anus, and may be difficult to treat.
People with HIV are also at increased risk of herpes and shingles.
The result is enlarged lymph nodes, commonly known as swollen glands.